1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul;188:118167. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118167. 
Epub 2025 May 24.

Protective effects of irbesartan against neurodegeneration in APP/PS1 mice: 
Unraveling its triple anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant action.

Gouveia F(1), Pérez MC(2), Bicker J(3), Silva A(4), Santos AE(5), Pereira CF(6), 
Camins A(2), Falcão A(3), Cruz T(7), Ettcheto M(8), Fortuna A(9).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; Department of 
Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food 
Science, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institute of Neurosciences, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of 
Pharmacy and Food Science, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institute 
of Neurosciences, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Biomedical 
Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Carlos III 
Health Institute, Madrid, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Sanitària Pere Virgili 
(IISPV), Reus, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(5)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBB-Center for Innovative Biomedicine and Biotechnology, 
University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; Laboratory of Biochemistry and 
Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(6)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(7)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; CIBB-Center for Innovative Biomedicine and 
Biotechnology, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of 
Pharmacy and Food Science, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institute 
of Neurosciences, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Biomedical 
Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Carlos III 
Health Institute, Madrid, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Sanitària Pere Virgili 
(IISPV), Reus, Spain. Electronic address: mirenettcheto@ub.edu.
(9)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic 
address: afortuna@ff.uc.pt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves a complex interplay between amyloid-β plaques, 
oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and apoptosis, suggesting that multi-target 
therapies may be more effective than single-target treatments. Angiotensin 
receptor blockers (ARBs) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) 
have shown protective effects against AD in hypertensive patients. However, 
those poor blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability exhibit limited efficacy in 
neurodegenerative disorders. This study investigated the neuroprotective 
potential of three ARBs and one ACEI using a combined in vitro and in vivo 
approach. In N2a and N2a-APPswe cell lines, irbesartan showed the most robust 
effects, notably increasing p-AKT and HMOX1 levels. Based on these results, 
irbesartan was selected for the following in vivo studies and administered 
intranasally (40 mg/kg) to APP/PS1 male mice for 10 weeks. Treated animals 
showed significant improvements in memory performance, as measured by the novel 
object recognition test and the Morris water maze. Additionally, irbesartan 
enhanced dendritic spine density, restored mitochondrial bioenergetics and BBB 
integrity, and reduced apoptotic markers. These effects were accompanied by a 
marked reduction in oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. Overall, these 
results support the potential of intranasal irbesartan as a promising 
multi-target therapeutic strategy for AD, capable of modulating key pathological 
features, including synaptic dysfunction, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative 
stress, apoptosis, and neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118167
PMID: 40414000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


2. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Jul;193:110292. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110292. 
Epub 2025 May 24.

Relational Bi-level aggregation graph convolutional network with dynamic graph 
learning and puzzle optimization for Alzheimer's classification.

Raajasree K(1), Jaichandran R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Aarupadai Veedu Institute of 
Technology, Vinayaka Mission's Research Foundation (Deemed to be university), 
Tamilnadu, 603104, India. Electronic address: rsreepillai@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Aarupadai Veedu Institute of 
Technology, Vinayaka Mission's Research Foundation (Deemed to be university), 
Tamilnadu, 603104, India. Electronic address: rjaichandran@avit.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a 
progressive cognitive decline, necessitating early diagnosis for effective 
treatment. This study presents the Relational Bi-level Aggregation Graph 
Convolutional Network with Dynamic Graph Learning and Puzzle Optimization for 
Alzheimer's Classification (RBAGCN-DGL-PO-AC), using denoised T1-weighted 
Magnetic Resonance Images (MRIs) collected from Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI) repository. Addressing the impact of noise in medical imaging, 
the method employs advanced denoising techniques includes: the Modified 
Spline-Kernelled Chirplet Transform (MSKCT), Jump Gain Integral Recurrent Neural 
Network (JGIRNN), and Newton Time Extracting Wavelet Transform (NTEWT), to 
enhance the image quality. Key brain regions, crucial for classification such as 
hippocampal, lateral ventricle and posterior cingulate cortex are segmented 
using Attention Guided Generalized Intuitionistic Fuzzy C-Means Clustering 
(AG-GIFCMC). Feature extraction and classification using segmented outputs are 
performed with RBAGCN-DGL and puzzle optimization, categorize input images into 
Healthy Controls (HC), Early Mild Cognitive Impairment (EMCI), Late Mild 
Cognitive Impairment (LMCI), and Alzheimer's Disease (AD). To assess the 
effectiveness of the proposed method, we systematically examined the structural 
modifications to the RBAGCN-DGL-PO-AC model through extensive ablation studies. 
Experimental findings highlight that RBAGCN-DGL-PO-AC state-of-the art 
performance, with 99.25 % accuracy, outperforming existing methods including 
MSFFGCN_ADC, CNN_CAD_DBMRI, and FCNN_ADC, while reducing training time by 28.5 % 
and increasing inference speed by 32.7 %. Hence, the RBAGCN-DGL-PO-AC method 
enhances AD classification by integrating denoising, segmentation, and dynamic 
graph-based feature extraction, achieving superior accuracy and making it a 
valuable tool for clinical applications, ultimately improving patient outcomes 
and disease management.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110292
PMID: 40413896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Jul-Aug;64:103371. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.05.010.
Epub  2025 May 24.

Anti-amyloid immunotherapies for Alzheimer's disease: Administration, side 
effects, and overall framework.

Sadruddin Z(1), Harris K(2), Bilsborough E(3), Sciba L(3), Vargas AF(3), Shyer 
M(3), Hinojosa M(3), Colby J(3), Chung K(3), Farrell CM(3), Khan S(3), 
Martinez-Menendez CJ(3), Schulz PE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA; Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, 
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El Paso, El Paso, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA. Electronic address: 
Kristofer.T.Harris@uth.tmc.edu.
(3)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.

Recently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of aducanumab 
(Aduhelm), lecanemab (Leqembi), and donanemab (Kisunla) in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and early-stage dementia secondary to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). These medications-classified as anti-amyloid 
immunotherapies-reduce the burden of amyloid in the brain, as well as clinical 
decline as evidenced by cognitive assessments. Amyloid Related Imaging 
Abnormalities (ARIA), including ARIA-E (i.e., vasogenic edema) and ARIA-H (i.e., 
cerebral microhemorrhages), have been identified as important side effects. 
Given the novelty of these medications, limited educational resources are 
available to front line medical staff, primarily nurses, who are involved with 
patient education, administration of medications, and monitoring for side 
effects. The aim of this manuscript is to discuss the mechanism of action, 
indications, administration, and side effects associated with anti-amyloid 
immunotherapies and to provide medical staff with an assessment and educational 
framework to use in their practice.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.05.010
PMID: 40413817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Paul E. Schulz 
is funded by the McCord Family Professorship in Neurology, the Umphrey Family 
Professorship in Neurodegenerative Disorders, multiple NIH grants, several 
foundation grants, and contracts with multiple pharmaceutical companies related 
to the performance of clinical trials. He serves as a consultant and speaker for 
Eli Lilly, Biogen, and Acadia Pharmaceuticals. Elizabeth Bilsborough reports 
personal fees from Eisai, Inc. Christine Farrell reports personal fees from Eli 
Lilly and Company. All other authors have no conflict of interest to report.


4. Age Ageing. 2025 May 3;54(5):afaf121. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf121.

Antihypertensive drug classes and risk of incident dementia: a multinational 
population-based cohort study.

Cheung ECL(1), Adesuyan M(2)(3), Szilcz M(4), Kalisch Ellett LM(5), Shah S(6), 
Jani YH(2)(3), Hägg S(4), Pratt N(5), Lau KK(7), Luo H(8)(9), Wan 
EYF(1)(10)(11)(12), Chan EWY(1), Wong ICK(1)(13)(14), Yuen JK(7)(15), Yiu KH(7), 
Howard R(16), Brauer R(2)(3), Chui CSL(11)(15)(17).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Safe Medication Practice and Research, Department of Pharmacology 
and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(2)Research Department of Practice and Policy, UCL School of Pharmacy, London, 
UK.
(3)Centre for Medicines Optimisation Research and Education, University College 
London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Quality Use of Medicines and Pharmacy Research Centre, Clinical and Health 
Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(6)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.
(7)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of 
Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(8)School of Public Health Sciences, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, 
Canada.
(9)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(10)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, School of Clinical Medicine, 
Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, 
China.
(11)Advance Data Analytics for Medical Science (ADAMS) Limited, Hong Kong SAR, 
China.
(12)The Institute of Cardiovascular Science and Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of 
Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(13)Aston Pharmacy School, Aston University, Birmingham, UK.
(14)School of Pharmacy, Medical Sciences Division, Macau University of Science 
and Technology, Taipa, Macau.
(15)School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(16)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(17)School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BACKGROUND: Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin-II 
receptor blockers (ARBs) are first-line antihypertensive drugs for many 
patients, and influencing angiotensin systems may play a role in dementia risk. 
This study aimed to investigate whether exposure to different antihypertensive 
drug classes compared with ACEI affects the risk of dementia and pathological 
dementia subtypes in a large multinational database study.
METHODS: This was a multinational population-based cohort study using electronic 
health databases in Hong Kong, the UK, Sweden and Australia. A common protocol 
was used to harmonise the study design. An active comparator, a new user design, 
was applied to compare the risk of all-cause dementia between different 
antihypertensive drug classes, with secondary outcomes of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Adjusted Cox proportional hazards models with 
inverse probability of treatment weighting were used to generate results in each 
study site and were pooled in meta-analysis.
RESULTS: One million nine hundred twenty-five thousand, five hundred sixty-three 
individuals were included across the four databases with a median follow-up 
ranging from 5.6 to 8.4 years. Compared to ACEI, initiation with ARB was 
associated with a reduced risk of incident all-cause dementia [hazard ratio 
(HR): 0.92, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.89-0.94] and VaD (HR 0.87, 95% CI 
0.78-0.96) but not AD.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the largest multinational cohort study conducted to date 
investigating different classes of antihypertensive drugs and the risk of 
incident dementia. When initiating antihypertensives, physicians and patients 
should consider the reduced risk of all-cause dementia and VaD with ARB compared 
with ACEI in their risk-benefit assessment.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf121
PMCID: PMC12103899
PMID: 40413804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.K.L. received grants from the Research Fund 
Secretariat of the Food and Health Bureau, Innovation and Technology Bureau, 
Research Grants Council, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eisai and Pfizer; and 
consultation fees from Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Daiichi Sankyo and Sanofi, 
all outside the submitted work. E..Y.F.W. has received research grants from the 
Health Bureau, the Hong Kong Research Grants Council, Narcotics Division, 
Security Bureau, Social Welfare Department, Labour and Welfare Bureau of the 
Government of the Hong Kong SAR and National Natural Science Foundation of 
China; serves on member of Core Team for Expert Group on Drug Registration of 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board, and is the director of Advance Data Analytics for 
Medical Science (ADAMS) Limited (HK). These are outside the submitted work. 
E.W.C. reports grants from Research Grants Council (RGC, Hong Kong), Research 
Fund Secretariat of the Food and Health Bureau, National Natural Science Fund of 
China, Wellcome Trust, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Janssen, Amgen, 
Takeda, Narcotics Division of the Security Bureau of HKSAR and honorarium from 
Hospital Authority, outside the submitted work. I.C.K.W. reports research 
funding from Amgen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Janssen, Bayer, GSK, Novartis, 
the Hong Kong Research Grants Council, the Hong Kong Health and Medical Research 
Fund, the National Institute for Health Research in England, the European 
Commission and the National Health and Medical Research Council in Australia, 
outside the submitted work and is a nonexecutive director of Jacobson Medical in 
Hong Kong and a consultant to IQVIA and World Health Organization and serves as 
a member of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, Hong Kong SAR, Expert Committee on 
Clinical Events Assessment Following COVID-19 Immunization and Advisory Panel on 
COVID-19 Vaccines of the Hong Kong Government. C.S.L.C. has received grants from 
the Food and Health Bureau of the Hong Kong Government, Hong Kong Research Grant 
Council, Hong Kong Innovation and Technology Commission, Pfizer, IQVIA and Amgen 
and personal fees from Primevigilance Ltd., outside the submitted work.


5. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2025 May 25:acaf042. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acaf042.
Online  ahead of print.

Enhancing Interpretation of Cognitive Changes in Alzheimer's Intervention 
Trials: Application of Standardized Regression-Based Change Scores.

Stojanovic M(1), Baker BS(2), Urbina R(3), Gray M(3), Kiselica AM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Washington University in St. 
Louis, One Brookings Drive, Box 1125, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.
(2)School of Kinesiology, Applied Health, and Recreation, Oklahoma State 
University, 180 Colvin Center, Stillwater, OK 74078, USA.
(3)Department of Health, Human Performance, and Recreation, University of 
Arkansas, 155 Stadium Dr, Suite 308, Fayetteville, AR 72701, USA.
(4)Institute of Gerontology, University of Georgia, 102 Spear Road, Athens, GA 
30602, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Interpreting results from intervention trials for cognition in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be complicated due to comparison to an active 
control group. In some cases, there are improvements in cognition across both 
conditions, but no between-condition differences. These results might indicate 
that both interventions positively impact cognition; conversely, improvements 
might be attributable to other factors, such as practice effects. One way to 
differentiate between these possibilities is to use standardized 
regression-based (SRB) change indices. We present an example of applying this 
technique to understand equivocal behavioral intervention trial results.
METHOD: 214 participants (ages: 45-75) were randomly assigned to a 2-year health 
coaching or health education intervention to reduce AD risk and improve 
cognition.
RESULTS: Linear mixed-effects models showed improvements in cognitive domains 
over time, without a differential treatment effect (p < 0.001). SRB change 
analyses showed that improvements on the Repeatable Battery for Assessment of 
Neuropsychological Status were likely not meaningful, with ≤5 participants 
demonstrating significant changes over time beyond what would be expected with 
no intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: SRB indices provide a nuanced interpretation of results from 
behavioral intervention trials for improving cognition, which may translate into 
improved patient care decisions.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acaf042
PMID: 40413790


6. Autophagy. 2025 May 30:1-13. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2025.2510843. Online ahead
of  print.

Defective autophagy in a fibroin secretion-deficient silkworm mutant.

Xia J(1), Chen H(1), Wang Y(1), Hu W(1), Guo K(1), Linghu Q(1), Guo P(1), Wang 
X(1), Xia Q(1), Nezis IP(2), Zhao P(1), Dong Z(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Integrative Science Center of Germplasm Creation in Western China (Chongqing) 
Science City, Biological Science Research Center, Southwest University, 
Chongqing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.

The silkworm Bombyx mori is an economically important insect for silk 
production. Its silk glands are responsible for the synthesis and secretion of 
silk proteins. The naked pupa (Nd), a fibroin heavy chain mutant strain of 
silkworm, was found to exhibit severe atrophy, degeneration of the posterior 
silk gland (PSG), and abnormal secretion of fibroin proteins, thereby producing 
little or no silk. Here, we found that the autophagic marker Atg8-PE was 
upregulated through the target of rapamycin complex 1 signaling pathway in Nd. 
However, as autophagy substrates, SQSTM1/p62 and ubiquitinated protein levels 
increased in Nd. Furthermore, treatment with BafA1 showed no effect on the 
protein levels of SQSTM1/p62, indicating impaired autophagic flux in Nd. 
Abnormal acidification of lysosomes was further detected, which resulted in a 
decreased proportion of matured CtsL1 (cathepsin L1). Thus, the substrate in 
autolysosomes cannot be degraded within a rapid time frame, resulting in the 
accumulation of protein aggregates, which cause atrophy and degeneration of the 
PSG. We also found that acidic nanoparticles rescued lysosomal acidification and 
relieved the degenerative changes of Nd-PSG. The findings of this study suggest 
that the Nd mutant silkworm can be used as an animal model for studying protein 
aggregation diseases.Abbreviations: AD: Alzheimer disease; aNP: acidic 
nanoparticle; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; Atg8: autophagy related 8; 
BACE1: beta-secretase 1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CtsL1: cathepsin L1; CRY: 
crystallin; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; FibH: fibroin heavy chain; FibL: fibroin 
light chain; FUS: FUS RNA binding protein; HD: Huntington disease; HRP: 
horseradish peroxidase; Nd: naked pupa; OSBPL2: oxysterol binding protein like 
2; PD: Parkinson disease; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; p-EIF4EBP: 
phosphorylated eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein; PROM1: prominin 
1; p-RPS6KB: phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 kinase B; PSEN: presenilin; 
PSG: posterior silk gland; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; 
SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TARDBP: TAR DNA binding protein; TORC1: target of 
rapamycin complex 1; UBQLN2: ubiquilin 2; V-ATPase: vacuolar-type ATPase.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2025.2510843
PMID: 40413758


7. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 24;17(1):116. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01766-y.

Navigating the introduction of anti-amyloid therapy in Europe: a position 
statement by individual members of the EADC.

Frederiksen KS(1)(2), Boada M(3)(4), Dubois B(5)(6), Engelborghs S(7)(8), 
Frisoni GB(9), Georges J(10), Hort J(11), Jönsson L(12), Kramberger MG(13)(14), 
Ousset PJ(15), Scarmeas N(16)(17), Schmidt R(18), Schott JM(19), Spiro 
L(20)(21)(22)(23), Waldemar G(24)(25), Winblad B(26)(27), Jessen F(28)(29)(30), 
Frölich L(31).

Author information:
(1)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Kristian.steen.frederiksen@regionh.dk.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Kristian.steen.frederiksen@regionh.dk.
(3)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona - Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Networking Research Center On Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease (IM2 A), Department of Neurology, 
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Sorbonne University, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(6)Frontlab, Paris Brain Institute (Institut du Cerveau, ICM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(7)Department of Neurology and Bru-BRAIN, NEUR Research Group, Center for 
Neurosciences (C4 N), Universitair Ziekenhuis Brusseland, VrijeUniversiteit 
Brussel (VUB) , Brussels, Belgium.
(8)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(9)LANVIE - Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging, Memory Centerand, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva , Geneva, Switzerland.
(10)Alzheimer Europe, Luxembourg, Luxembourg.
(11)Department of Neurology, Second Faculty of Medicine, Memory Clinic, Charles 
University and Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(12)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, University Medical Center, 
University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(14)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(15)Toulouse Clinical Research Center, Toulouse University Hospital, Toulouse, 
France.
(16)1, Department of Neurology, Aiginition Hospital, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens Medical School GR, Athens, Greece.
(17)Department of Neurology, Taub Institute for Research in Alzheimer's Disease 
and the Aging Brain, The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(18)Clinical Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University Graz, Graz, Austria.
(19)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, UCL, 
London, UK.
(20)Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy (www.umfcd.ro), Bucharest, 
Romania.
(21)Faculty, Geneva College of Longevity Science (www.gcls.study), Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(22)Faculty, Geneva School of Business Administration, University of Applied 
Sciences of Western Switzerland (www.hesge.ch), Geneva, Switzerland.
(23)President "Ana ASLAN International" Foundation (www.anaaslanacademy.ro), 
Excellence Memory Center, Brain Health, and Longevity Medicine, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(24)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(25)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(26)Aging and Inflammation Theme, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(27)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Dept of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Theme Inflammation & Aging, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden.
(28)Department of Psychiatry, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany.
(29)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(30)Excellence Cluster On Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases 
(CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(31)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Central 
Institute of Mental Health, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Anti-amyloid antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer´s disease 
(AD) are currently being evaluated for approval and reimbursement in Europe. An 
approval brings opportunities, but also challenges to health care systems across 
Europe. The objective of this position paper is to provide guidance from experts 
in the field in terms of navigating implementation.
METHODS: Members of the European Alzheimer's Disease Consortium and a 
representative of Alzheimer Europe convened to formulate recommendations 
covering key areas related to the possible implementation of anti-amyloid 
antibodies in AD through online discussions and 2 rounds of online voting with 
an 80% threshold for a position to be accepted.
RESULTS: In total, 24 recommendations were developed covering the research 
landscape and priorities within research in AD following a possible approval, 
potential impact on health care systems and diagnostic pathways, and 
communication to patients about anti-amyloid antibodies. Anti-amyloid antibodies 
are regarded as a substantial innovation with an important clinical impact. In 
addition, however, new compounds with other mechanisms of action and/or route of 
administration are also needed. Approval of new treatments will require changes 
to existing patient pathways and real-world data needs to be generated.
CONCLUSION: Comprehensive guidance is provided on the potential implementation 
of anti-amyloid antibody therapies in Europe following possible approval. 
Emphasis is placed on the necessity of regularly updating recommendations as new 
evidence emerges in the coming years.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01766-y
PMCID: PMC12102950
PMID: 40413561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


8. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;12(7):100202. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100202.  Epub 2025 May 24.

Lower baseline amyloid beta burden is associated with greater percent of amyloid 
beta positron emission tomography reduction and better clinical outcomes in the 
aducanumab Phase 3 trials ENGAGE and EMERGE in early Alzheimer's disease.

Burton J(1), Brothers HM(2), Hutchison RM(2), Murphy J(2), Sun T(2), Dent G(2), 
Curiale G(2), Kowalski K(3).

Author information:
(1)Biogen Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
Jackson.Burton@Biogen.com.
(2)Biogen Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Kowalski PMetrics Consulting, LLC, Naples, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Aducanumab is a human immunoglobulin G1 anti-amyloid beta antibody 
for early-stage Alzheimer's disease. After the discontinuation of the aducanumab 
clinical program and market withdrawal, the Phase 3 data were further assessed 
to characterize the relationship between baseline amyloid beta load, degree of 
amyloid beta removal, and subsequent clinical outcomes to provide context for 
future research.
OBJECTIVES: This analysis leveraged modelling techniques to impute missing 
amyloid beta positron emission tomography values and better understand the 
relationship between baseline amyloid beta positron emission tomography status, 
amyloid beta positron emission tomography reduction, and clinical outcomes in 
the aducanumab Phase 3 ENGAGE and EMERGE (NCT02477800/NCT02484547) studies.
DESIGN: Exploratory data analysis.
SETTING: A previously developed model which characterized the relationship 
between aducanumab exposure and amyloid beta positron emission tomography 
standard uptake value ratio was updated to impute centiloid values for 
participants not enrolled in the amyloid beta positron emission tomography 
substudy. Additional clinically-relevant variables were also summarized.
PARTICIPANTS: 1876 participants with baseline amyloid beta positron emission 
tomography and clinical endpoints in a pooled ENGAGE/EMERGE dataset at week 78.
INTERVENTION: Aducanumab MEASUREMENTS: Amyloid burden measured by centiloids and 
clinical endpoints.
RESULTS: In older participants whose baseline amyloid beta burden is lower than 
the average trial population, exposure to aducanumab provides greater clinical 
benefit across cognitive and functional endpoints.
CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between baseline amyloid beta load and treatment 
benefit in a large population after exposure to an amyloid beta-directed 
antibody provides insight into which subpopulations are likely to benefit from 
this class of treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100202
PMCID: PMC12321606
PMID: 40413110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Jackson Burton reports a 
relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: employment and equity or stocks. 
Holly M. Brothers reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: 
employment and equity or stocks. R. Matthew Hutchison reports a relationship 
with Biogen Inc that includes: employment and equity or stocks. Jennifer Murphy 
reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: employment and equity or 
stocks. Tao Sun reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: employment 
and equity or stocks. Gersham Dent reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that 
includes: employment and equity or stocks. Gioacchino Curiale reports a 
relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: employment and equity or stocks. Ken 
Kowalski reports a relationship with Kowalski PMetrics Consulting that includes: 
employment. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


9. BMJ Open. 2025 May 24;15(5):e102186. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-102186.

Planning Ahead: protocol for a randomised trial of advance care planning for 
community dwelling older adults at increased mortality risk.

Torke AM(1)(2)(3), Hickman S(2)(4), Wocial L(5), Monahan PO(6), Burke ES(7), 
Slaven J(6), Ziemba K(8), Montgomery C(9), Koch S(10), Cavanaugh M(3)(11), Fox 
Ludden E(7).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA 
atorke@iu.edu.
(2)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Regenstrief Institute, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)Eskenazi Health, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(4)Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(5)MedStar Washington Hospital Center, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(7)Regenstrief Institute, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(8)Respecting Choices, Oregon, Wisconsin, USA.
(9)College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, 
USA.
(10)Palliative Care, Indiana University Health, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(11)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

INTRODUCTION: An important goal of advance care planning (ACP) is ensuring that 
patients receive care concordant with their preferences. High-quality evidence 
is needed about the effect of ACP on this and other outcomes.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Planning Ahead is a randomised controlled trial to test 
the effectiveness of facilitated ACP in community-dwelling older adults 
including those with normal cognition and those with Alzheimer's Disease and 
Related Dementias (ADRD) who are at high risk of death. The primary aim is to 
determine the effect of the intervention on discordance between preferences for 
medical treatments and the treatments received in the year after the 
intervention. Secondary outcomes include decision-making quality, care at the 
end of life and cost. Eligible patients have a primary care provider at one of 
two Midwest health systems, have an approximate 33% mortality risk and do not 
have a POLST form at baseline. Patients with capacity can invite the person they 
would choose to be their healthcare decision maker to participate as a study 
partner. A surrogate decision maker enrols and receives the intervention for 
patients who lack capacity due to ADRD. The intervention uses the Respecting 
Choices Advanced Steps (RCAS) model of ACP delivered by a registered nurse and 
includes identification of the patient's values and goals, education about ACP 
and the POLST form and the opportunity to complete a POLST form.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study is approved by the Indiana University 
Institutional Review Board. Primary and secondary analyses will be published in 
peer-reviewed journals. We also plan dissemination through the media. We will 
construct a deidentified data set that could be available to other researchers. 
Survey data will be preserved and shared via the NIH-supported National Archive 
of Computerised Data on Ageing's (NACDA) Open Ageing Repository (OAR).
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04070183.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-102186
PMCID: PMC12104946
PMID: 40413042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


10. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 16;96(8):722-727. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2025-335830.

Tailoring thresholds for interpreting plasma p-tau217 levels.

Ahn J(#)(1), Lee EH(#)(2)(3), Yoo H(1), Shin D(3), Kang H(3), Yim S(3), Kim 
S(1), Kim K(1), Yoon S(1), Zetterberg H(4)(5), Blennow K(4)(5), Gonzalez-Ortiz 
F(4)(5), Ashton N(4)(6), Kang SH(3)(7), Yun J(8), Kim JP(3), Kim HJ(1)(3), Na 
DL(1)(3), Jang H(9), Kim K(10)(11), Seo SW(12)(3); K-ROAD study group.

Collaborators: Kim Y, Han SH, Seong JK, Choi JK, Lee ES, Lee TK, Chin J, Kim CH, 
Kim HJ, Bok H, Kim HR, Kim SJ, Na S, Kim GH, Lee JS, Cho H, Kim BC, Lee DY, Moon 
SY, Byun MS, Jung G, Yi D, Lee HN, Jang JW, Jeong JH, Jung YH, Kim JH, Kim Y, 
Cheon BK, Seo J, Noh Y, Yang H, Ha Y, Shin HE, Kang K, Eom S, Han SH, Shin KY, 
Kim Y, Jang J, Yoon C, Lee DK, Seong J, Ham H, Park YH, Kim SJ, Byun B, Choi Y, 
Lee NK, Won HH, Cho M, Jung SH, Lee DH, Kim B.

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Gangnam-gu, Korea (the Republic of).
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Gangnam-gu, Korea (the 
Republic of).
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(7)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Guro-gu, Korea (the 
Republic of).
(8)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Hospital Bucheon, 
Bucheon-si, Korea (the Republic of).
(9)Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Jongno-gu, Korea (the Republic 
of).
(10)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Jongno-gu, 
Korea (the Republic of) sw72.seo@samsung.com kyunga.j.kim@samsung.com.
(11)Biomedical Statistics Center, Research Institute for Future Medicine, 
Samsung Medical Center, Gangnam-gu, Korea (the Republic of).
(12)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Gangnam-gu, Korea (the Republic of) sw72.seo@samsung.com 
kyunga.j.kim@samsung.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 217 test has emerged as a 
minimally invasive and accessible alternative to positron emission tomography 
imaging and cerebrospinal fluid analysis for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
diagnostics. However, the diagnostic performance of p-tau217 across diverse 
cognitive and demographic subgroups remains underexplored. This multicentre 
cross-sectional study aimed to assess the diagnostic utility of plasma p-tau217 
using a double cut-off approach in a large, diverse cohort, focusing on subgroup 
analyses based on cognitive status, age, sex, body mass index and APOE ε4 
carrier status.
METHODS: Plasma p-tau217 levels were analysed in cognitively unimpaired (CU) and 
cognitively impaired (CI) individuals. Double cut-offs for p-tau217 levels were 
selected to classify participants into amyloid-negative, intermediate and 
amyloid-positive groups. Diagnostic performance metrics including sensitivity, 
specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value were 
evaluated across subgroups, and tailored cut-off strategies were explored for 
specific populations.
RESULTS: The optimal cut-offs differed between CU and CI groups. In the CI 
group, diagnostic accuracy was consistently high across all subgroups, meeting 
confirmatory test standards with sensitivity and specificity ≥90%. In the CU 
group, the appropriate standards varied by subgroup. Participants aged <65 years 
required alternative cut-offs to improve sensitivity to 85.0% and maintain 
specificity at 95.7%.
CONCLUSION: Plasma p-tau217 demonstrated robust diagnostic accuracy across CI 
subgroups and highlighted the importance of tailored cut-off thresholds for CU 
populations. These findings support the integration of plasma p-tau217 into 
clinical workflows for AD diagnostics, emphasising its potential for early 
detection and risk stratification.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2025-335830
PMID: 40413031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HZ has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and 
Wave; has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche and WebMD; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). DLN and SWS are co-founders of 
BeauBrain Healthcare, Inc.


11. Life Sci. 2025 Sep 1;376:123756. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123756. Epub 2025
May  22.

A targeted approach: Gene and RNA editing for neurodegenerative disease 
treatment.

Huang CW(1), Zhang WZ(2), Liao Y(2), Hu T(1), Li JM(3), Wang CL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stress Medicine, Faculty of Psychology, Naval Medical 
University, Shanghai, 200433, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Changhai Hospital, Naval Medical University, 
Shanghai 200433, China; School of Anesthesiology, Naval Medical University, 
Shanghai 200433, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The 971st Hospital of Navy, Qingdao 266071, China. 
Electronic address: LiJiamei@smmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Changhai Hospital, Naval Medical University, 
Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: wangchangli@smmu.edu.cn.

With the global aging trend, neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) have emerged as a 
significant public health concern in the 21st century, imposing substantial 
economic burdens on families and society. NDs are characterized by cognitive and 
motor decline, resulting from a combination of genetic and environmental 
factors. Currently, there is no cure for NDs. Gene and RNA editing therapies 
offer new possibilities for addressing NDs. Gene editing involves modifying 
mutant genes associated with NDs, while RNA editing can directly modify RNA 
molecules to regulate the protein translation process, potentially influencing 
the expression of genes related to NDs. In this review, we examined the 
historical evolution, mechanisms of action, applications in NDs, advantages and 
disadvantages, as well as ethical and safety considerations of gene and RNA 
editing. While gene and RNA editing technologies hold promise for treating NDs, 
further research and development are needed to address safety, efficacy, and 
treatment timing issues, ultimately offering improved treatment options for ND 
patients. Our review provides valuable insights for future gene and RNA editing 
applications in ND treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123756
PMID: 40412606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


12. Brain Res. 2025 Sep 1;1862:149680. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149680. Epub 
2025 May 22.

Mechanism of Rhizoma Polygonati in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease based on 
network pharmacology and molecular docking.

Zhou Q(1), Huang X(2), Chen Z(1), Wang F(1), Xie L(1), Sun Q(1), Du J(3), Lin 
J(4), Li B(5), Li L(6).

Author information:
(1)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China.
(2)Dalang Hospital of Dongguan, Dongguan, China.
(3)Central Research Laboratory, Shenzhen Hospital of Integrated Traditional 
Chinese and Western Medicine, Shenzhen 518104, China. Electronic address: 
jkdujk@hotmail.com.
(4)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: linjt326@163.com.
(5)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: gdmuli@126.com.
(6)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: china_lovelylily@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: The therapeutic mechanisms of Rhizoma Polygonati (RP) on Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) were explored using network pharmacology methods and in vitro 
experiments for validation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: First, the main active ingredients and target proteins of 
RP were screened using Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) 
and UniProt protein database. AD-related targets were predicted using the 
DisGeNET database. Subsequently, Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and 
core targets were analyzed using STRING. DAVID was utilized for GO annotation, 
while KEGG plug-in was employed to perform enrichment analysis of KEGG pathways. 
AutoDockTools were examined molecular docking. And the RP mechanism on AD was 
confirmed in vitro experimentation.
RESULTS: Screening identified 8 active ingredients, 76 potential targets, and 
3397 CE-related genes, with 58 overlapping targets. 4 target proteins were 
analyzed through the PPI networks. The RP and AD shared 451 GO biological 
process items and 150 KEGG signal pathways. Molecular docking results showed 
that diosgenin (Dio) had strong binding abilities to AKT1 and Caspase 3. Dio 
inhibited apoptosis through AKT1/Caspase 3 pathway in the glutamate-induced 
SH-SY5Y cells in vitro.
CONCLUSION: The study revealed RP's potential mechanisms in treating AD, 
offering a theoretical basis for clinical use, by integrating network 
pharmacology with in vitro experiments.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149680
PMID: 40412586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


13. Am J Clin Nutr. 2025 Jul;122(1):48-59. doi: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2025.05.011.
Epub  2025 May 22.

The effects of the Multicultural Healthy Diet on cognitive decline and 
Alzheimer's disease risk: a phase II randomized controlled trial in middle-aged 
adults.

Mossavar-Rahmani Y(1), Hyun N(2), Hakun JG(3), Katz MJ(4), Pavlovic JM(5), 
Zetterberg H(6), Wang Z(7), Yang JB(8), Wylie-Rosett J(9), Hebert JR(10), 
Sliwinski MJ(11), Shaw PA(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Behavior Research & Implementation Science, Department of 
Epidemiology & Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, 
NY, United States. Electronic address: yasmin.mossavar-rahmani@einsteinmed.edu.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research 
Institute, Seattle, WA, United States; Department of Biostatistics, University 
of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Pennsylvania State University, College of 
Medicine, Hershey, PA, United States; Department of Psychology, The Pennsylvania 
State University, University Park, PA, United States; Department of Public 
Health Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, College of Medicine, 
Hershey, PA, United States; Center for Healthy Aging, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA, United States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, 
United States.
(5)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine & Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, United States.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry 
Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Department of 
Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, 
United Kingdom; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, United Kingdom; 
Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China; 
Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, United 
States.
(7)Division of Biostatistics, Department of Epidemiology & Population Health, 
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, United States.
(8)Division of Biostatistics, Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research 
Institute, Seattle, WA, United States.
(9)Division of Health Behavior Research & Implementation Science, Department of 
Epidemiology & Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, 
NY, United States.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and Cancer Prevention and 
Control Program, Arnold School of Public Health, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC, United States; Department of Nutrition, Connecting Health 
Innovations LLC, Columbia, SC, United States.
(11)Department of Public Health Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, United States; Center for Healthy Aging, The 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, United States; Department of 
Human Development and Family Studies, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Anti-inflammatory dietary patterns are associated with slower 
cognitive decline in older adults; however, little is known about the effects of 
an anti-inflammatory dietary pattern in middle age.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to adapt an anti-inflammatory diet to a 
multicultural setting and assess its impact on cognitive decline and Alzheimer's 
disease risk and related dementias in healthy middle-aged adults.
METHODS: We performed a phase II pilot randomized clinical trial in adults 
(40-65 y old; n = 290) in Bronx, New York. Participants were assigned to follow 
either the Multicultural Healthy Diet (MHD), an anti-inflammatory diet, or usual 
diet (Comparison). Diet was evaluated using the National Cancer Institute's 
Automated Self-Administered 24-h food records. The primary cognitive outcome was 
assessed at 9 mo after randomization using a global composite score derived from 
3 ambulatory cognitive assessments of visuospatial memory (Grid Memory), 
processing speed (Symbol Search) and short-term associative memory binding 
(Color Shapes). Secondary outcomes included performance on individual tests and 
association of dietary components with cognitive performance.
RESULTS: At 9-mo follow-up, the MHD arm had a lower Dietary Inflammatory Index 
(DII) score based on self-reported diet, with an adjusted MHD minus Comparison 
difference of -0.64 [95% confidence interval (CI): -1.02, -0.27] and -0.94 (95% 
CI: -1.34, -0.54) for the DII and energy-adjusted DII scores, respectively, 
indicating intervention participants had adhered to an anti-inflammatory dietary 
pattern. Group session and telephone contact completion averaged 93% and 72%, 
respectively, for the MHD arm. No statistically significant difference between 
arms was found in the primary outcome-cognitive global score change-from 
baseline: -0.06 (95% CI: -0.15, 0.04), P = .259.
CONCLUSIONS: The MHD is feasible and acceptable in this multicultural United 
States cohort. Although the influence of MHD at 9 mo is nonsignificant based on 
the global composite cognitive score, additional research using other measures 
such as day-to-day variability in cognitive function and peak performance is 
warranted. This study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT03240406 
(https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03240406?term=Diet%20%26%20Cognition&page=3&rank=30).

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2025.05.011
PMCID: PMC12308077
PMID: 40412481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest JRH owns controlling 
interest in Connecting Health Innovations LLC (CHI), a company that has licensed 
the right to his invention of the dietary inflammatory index (DII) from the 
University of South Carolina to develop computer and smartphone applications for 
patient counseling and dietary intervention in clinical settings. CHI owns 
exclusive rights to the energy-adjusted DII (E-DII). The subject matter of this 
paper has no direct bearing on that work, nor has any CHI-related activity 
exerted any influence on this project. HZ has served at scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a 
cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). All other authors 
report no conflicts of interest.


14. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul;188:118199. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118199. 
Epub 2025 May 23.

Can ketamine therapy overcome treatment-resistant depression in Alzheimer's 
disease and older adults? Preclinical and clinical evidence.

Mario A(1), Ivana L(2), Claudia MM(2), Antonello B(2), Francesco P(3), Tommaso 
C(4), Madia L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy. Electronic address: mario.altamura@unifg.it.
(2)Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy.
(3)Cesare Frugoni" Internal and Geriatric Medicine and Memory Unit, University 
of Bari "Aldo Moro", Bari, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neuroscience "DiBrain", 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.

Erratum in
    Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Aug;189:118232. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118232.

Treatment-resistant depression (TRD) presents substantial clinical challenges, 
particularly in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and older adults 
experiencing late-life depression. Traditional monoaminergic therapies often 
fail in this population due to neurodegenerative changes that impact receptor 
dynamics and neurotransmitter systems. Emerging evidence suggests that 
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, such as ketamine, esketamine, 
and arketamine, may offer new avenues for treatment. This review examines the 
potential of ketamine and its derivatives in treating TRD in older adults and 
individuals with AD, focusing on their mechanisms of action, clinical efficacy, 
and limitations in the context of neurodegenerative pathology. Following PRISMA 
(Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines, 
we conducted a systematic search of PubMed, Google Scholar, and Web of Science 
databases up until January 2025, with no year restrictions. Nineteen human 
clinical studies and eight preclinical studies met the inclusion criteria. 
Evidence suggests that ketamine may offer advantages over standard treatments 
for AD, potentially due to its broader mechanism of action compared to the NMDA 
antagonist memantine, as observed in animal models of AD. Clinical findings have 
demonstrated the rapid and robust antidepressant effects of ketamine and 
esketamine, alleviating depressive symptoms in both AD patients and older adults 
with TRD, indicating their potential as effective therapeutic options for these 
complex conditions.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118199
PMID: 40412361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


15. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul;188:118168. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118168. 
Epub 2025 May 23.

Tacrolimus mitigates pathological patterns in mouse models of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Gomes GF(1), Batista CRÁ(1), Silva MCMD(1), Ferrari CZ(1), Koerich S(1), Brant 
ML(1), Saliba SW(2), Perez VG(2), Lima ALD(1), Ribeiro RDS(1), Candelario-Jalil 
E(3), Vieira LB(1), Fiebich BL(2), de Oliveira ACP(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Department of Pharmacology, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Neuroimmunology and Neurochemistry Research Group, Department of Psychiatry 
and Psychotherapy, Medical Center - University of Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, USA.
(4)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Department of Pharmacology, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic address: 
antoniooliveira@icb.ufmg.br.

Neuroinflammation and disruptions in glutamatergic neurotransmission are 
hallmark features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Various compounds have been 
investigated for their potential to modulate these processes in this disease. 
Tacrolimus (FK506), a calcineurin inhibitor (CNI), has been suggested as a 
candidate for the treatment of AD, although its effects and possible mechanisms 
have not been extensively evaluated. Here we investigated whether tacrolimus 
treatment could mitigate cognitive deficits, neurotoxicity, and microgliosis in 
AD models, including Aβ1-42-induced intrahippocampal damage and middle-aged 
transgenic APP/PS1 mice, as well as improve glutamate release dysregulation in 
synaptosomes from the latter. A single dose of tacrolimus prevented the 
cognitive impairment induced by intrahippocampal microinjection of Aβ1-42 in the 
novel object recognition test (NORT), and reduced the neurodegeneration. 
Interestingly, in the APP/PS1 model, a 30-day treatment with the drug did not 
prevent memory impairment in the NORT, albeit it improved the social interaction 
and partially reduced microgliosis. Finally, tacrolimus restored the 
intrasynaptotosomal calcium levels and normalized impaired glutamate release in 
synaptosomes from APP/PS1 mice. These findings provide new evidence that both 
acute and chronic treatment with tacrolimus exerts neuroprotective effects, 
providing a foundation for the potential therapeutic application of this CNI in 
managing AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118168
PMID: 40412360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


16. Redox Biol. 2025 Jul;84:103692. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103692. Epub 2025
May  20.

Cannabinol (CBN) alleviates age-related cognitive decline by improving synaptic 
and mitochondrial health.

Dar NJ(1), Currais A(1), Taguchi T(1), Andrews N(2), Maher P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular Neurobiology, The Salk Institute for Biological 
Studies, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Behaviour Testing Core, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, 
CA, USA.
(3)Department of Cellular Neurobiology, The Salk Institute for Biological 
Studies, La Jolla, CA, USA. Electronic address: pmaher@salk.edu.

Age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease, represent major global health challenges, particularly with 
an aging population. Mitochondrial dysfunction appears to play a central role in 
the pathophysiology of these conditions by driving redox dysregulation and 
impairing cellular energy metabolism. Despite extensive research, effective 
therapeutic options remain limited. Cannabinol (CBN), a cannabinoid previously 
identified as a potent inhibitor of oxytosis/ferroptosis through mitochondrial 
modulation, has demonstrated promising neuroprotective effects. In cell culture, 
CBN targets mitochondria, preserving mitochondrial membrane potential, enhancing 
antioxidant defenses and regulating bioenergetic processes. However, the in vivo 
therapeutic potential of CBN, particularly in aging models, has not been 
thoroughly explored. To address this gap, this study investigated the effects of 
CBN on age-associated cognitive decline and metabolic dysfunction using the 
SAMP8 mouse model of accelerated aging. Our results show that CBN significantly 
improves spatial learning and memory, with more pronounced cognitive benefits 
observed in female mice. These cognitive improvements are accompanied by 
sex-specific changes in metabolic parameters, such as enhanced oxygen 
consumption and energy expenditure. Mechanistically, CBN modulates key 
regulators of mitochondrial dynamics, including mitofusin 2 (MFN2) and 
dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1), while upregulating markers of mitochondrial 
biogenesis including mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) and translocase 
of outer mitochondrial membrane 20 (TOM20). Additionally, CBN upregulates key 
synaptic proteins involved in vesicle trafficking and postsynaptic signaling 
suggesting that it enhances synaptic function and neurotransmission, further 
reinforcing its neuroprotective effects. This study provides in vivo evidence 
supporting CBN's potential to mitigate age-related cognitive and metabolic 
dysfunction, with notable sex-specific effects, highlighting its promise for 
neurodegenerative diseases and cognitive decline.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103692
PMCID: PMC12150171
PMID: 40412024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


17. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12426-12444. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05078-y. 
Epub 2025 May 24.

Peripheral Choroid/RPE/Sclera as a Shared Pathogenic Hub: Multi-Tissue 
Transcriptomic Profiling Identifies Common Differentially Expressed Genes in 
Age-Related Macular Degeneration and Alzheimer's Disease.

Peng M(#)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zeng Q(#)(4), Zheng W(1)(2)(3), Xia X(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Eye Center of Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(2)Hunan Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(3)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, China.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Hunan Provincial People's Hospital and The 
First-Affiliated Hospital of Hunan Normal University, Changsha, China.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, the 921, Hospital of PLA (Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Hunan Normal University), Changsha, China.
(6)Eye Center of Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China. 
xbxia21@csu.edu.cn.
(7)Hunan Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China. xbxia21@csu.edu.cn.
(8)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, China. xbxia21@csu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
two prevalent neurodegenerative disorders, share overlapping pathophysiological 
features yet lack cross-disease therapeutic strategies. This study 
systematically investigates their parallel genes and shared molecular mechanisms 
to identify potential therapeutic targets for dry AMD, a condition with limited 
treatment options.
METHODS: Transcriptomic datasets for AMD (GSE155154) and AD (GSE95587) were 
retrieved from the GEO database. AMD tissues were stratified into four 
subgroups: macular retina (MR), macular choroid/RPE/sclera (MCRS), peripheral 
retina (PR), and peripheral choroid/RPE/sclera (PCRS). Common differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) were identified and analyzed via functional enrichment 
(GO, KEGG), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and protein-protein interaction 
(PPI) networks. Drug-gene interactions and competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) 
networks were constructed to prioritize therapeutic targets. Key hub genes were 
experimentally validated in a sodium iodate-induced AMD murine model using 
RT-qPCR.
RESULTS: Comparative analysis revealed 89, 56, 4, and 130 common DEGs between AD 
and MR, MCRS, PR, and PCRS subgroups, respectively. Neuroactive ligand-receptor 
interactions were prioritized in MR/MCRS-AD analyses, while extracellular matrix 
organization emerged as the dominant pathway in PCRS-AD comparisons. GSEA 
identified conserved the TNFα signaling pathway via NF-κB across both diseases. 
PCRS exhibited consistent expression trends for shared genes and pathways with 
AD. Computational screening prioritized seven druggable targets (COL1A1, COL1A2, 
COL3A1, MMP2, MMP9, VCAN, ITGA5) with dual therapeutic potential, along with a 
reconstructed circRNA (circRNA_002179)-miRNA (miR-124)-mRNA (VCAN) regulatory 
axis. Experimental validation in a sodium iodate-induced AMD murine model 
confirmed region-specific dysregulation: hub genes were significantly 
downregulated in MCRS but upregulated in PCRS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study delineates both convergent and divergent molecular 
landscapes of AMD and AD, with PCRS emerging as a critical locus for shared 
pathophysiology. These findings bridge a critical gap in understanding AMD-AD 
comorbidity, offering actionable strategies for targeted drug development.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05078-y
PMID: 40411685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: This study was 
approved by the Animal Care Committee of Central South University and carried 
out under the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for 
Publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


18. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12488-12497. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05074-2. 
Epub 2025 May 24.

Leveraging Alzheimer's Disease Omics to Identify Pleiotropic Genes Contributing 
to Neurodegeneration in Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Tolosa-Tort P(1), DeWan AT(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT, USA. paulina.tolosatort@yale.edu.
(2)Department of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Center for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology, Yale School 
of Public Health, New Haven, CT, USA.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is the most common form of glaucoma worldwide and 
one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. Current therapies focus on 
intraocular pressure control despite substantial evidence on the importance of 
additional pathogenic mechanisms involved in neuronal repair and regeneration. 
Some of these mechanisms may be shared with and across other neurodegenerative 
disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. Joint analyses that address this 
pathogenic overlap can be leveraged to identify suspected neurodegenerative and 
neuroprotective pathways. In this study, we derived gene-level summary 
statistics from available genome-wide association studies for primary open-angle 
glaucoma and Alzheimer's Disease and employed a multivariate analysis to 
identify genes with an effect on both neurodegenerative diseases. We assessed 
the influence of the prioritized genes using Mendelian randomization to obtain 
the effect of retina- and brain cortex-specific gene expression on primary 
open-angle glaucoma risk. We identified ten genes with evidence of a pleiotropic 
effect on primary open-angle glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease: TMCO1, ANXA11, 
ARHGAP27, PLEKHM1, CRHR1, KANSL1, LRRC37A, ARL17A, LRRC37A2, and CBY1. 
Additionally, gene expression in either the retina or brain cortex of TMCO1, 
ANXA11, ARHGAP27, PLEKHM1, KANSL1, LRRC37A, ARL17A, LRRC37A2, and CBY1 
influenced POAG risk. These genes have known roles in 
neurodegeneration-associated pathways. Our analysis uncovered evidence of 
pleiotropy and gene expression as a mechanism impacting disease risk. Further 
investigation into these genes may yield valuable insights into their 
involvement in neurodegenerative pathways potentially informing new approaches 
for early detection, classification, and treatment strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05074-2
PMID: 40411683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: This research was 
conducted using the United Kingdom Biobank Resource (application number 32285). 
The United Kingdom Biobank study was conducted under generic approval from the 
National Health Services’ National Research Ethics Service. The present analyses 
were approved by the Human Investigations Committee at Yale University 
(2000026836). Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


19. Gerontologist. 2025 Jun 12;65(7):gnaf142. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf142.

Latinx Views on the Roles of Families and Government in Long-Term Care.

Reyes AM(1), Patterson SE(2).

Author information:
(1)Brooks School of Public Policy and Sociology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York, USA.
(2)Survey Research Center Institute for Social Research University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Latinx older adults have a higher risk of Alzheimer's 
disease and other chronic conditions that require caregiving. Family and unpaid 
care, in addition to formal care, have associated costs (e.g., missing work). 
Ensuring older Latinx adults have access to care will require an understanding 
of support for policies that tackle the provision and costs of these services. 
We examine Latinx attitudes and support for policies that cover the costs of 
long-term care in the United States.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using data from the Long-Term Care Poll 2013-2022 
and the General Social Survey 2012, 2022, we assess Latinx attitudes toward who 
should be responsible for covering the cost of long-term care for older adults 
and support for policies that address the cost of long-term care.
RESULTS: Over half of older Latinx adults think Medicare should take on a large 
responsibility for these costs, suggesting that expanding the current public 
health insurance programs may receive strong support. Older Latinx adults 
support policies that would make acquiring long-term care insurance easier. 
Women are less likely than men to think family should be responsible for the 
cost of care and more likely to favor policies that support family caregivers.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Despite support for family responsibility for 
providing care, there is less support for the family covering care costs 
especially among women compared to men. Results suggest nuanced views among the 
Latinx population on who should bear long-term care costs and significant gender 
differences in these views.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf142
PMCID: PMC12257481
PMID: 40411497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70243. doi: 10.1002/alz.70243.

Ubiquitin-proteasome system in the different stages of dominantly inherited 
Alzheimer's disease.

Liu H(1), Bui Q(2), Hassenstab J(1), Gordon BA(3), Benzinger TLS(3), Timsina 
J(4), Sung YJ(4), Karch C(4), Renton AE(5), Daniels A(1), Morris JC(1), Xiong 
C(2), Ibanez L(4), Perrin RJ(1)(6), Llibre-Guerra JJ(1), Day GS(7), Supnet-Bell 
C(1), Xu X(2), Berman SB(8), Chhatwal JP(9), Ikeuchi T(10), Kasuga K(10), Niimi 
Y(11), Huey ED(12), Schofield PR(13)(14), Brooks WS(13)(14), Ryan NS(15)(16), 
Jucker M(17)(18), Laske C(17)(18), Levin J(19)(20)(21), Vöglein J(21)(22)(23), 
Roh JH(24), Lopera F(25), Bateman RJ(1), Cruchaga C(4), McDade EM(1); For DIAN 
study team.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(5)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic in Florida, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(8)Departments of Neurology and Clinical & Translational Science, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(9)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Brain Research Institute, Niigata University, Niigata, Japan.
(11)Specially appointed lecturer, Unit for Early and Exploratory Clinical 
Development, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(12)Memory and Aging Program, Butler Hospital, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Providence, Rhode 
Island, USA.
(13)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(14)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(15)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(16)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(17)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(18)Section for Dementia Research, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(19)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Site Munich, Munich, Germany.
(20)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, 
Germany.
(21)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(22)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(23)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(24)Departments of Neurology and Physiology, Korea University Anam Hospital, 
Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(25)Grupo de Neurociencias de Antioquia (GNA), Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Jul 23:rs.3.rs-4202125. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4202125/v1.

INTRODUCTION: This study investigated the role of the ubiquitin-proteasome 
system (UPS) in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease (DIAD) by examining 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of UPS proteins.
METHOD: The SOMAscan assay was used to detect changes in UPS proteins in 
mutation carriers (MCs) relative to disease progression; imaging and CSF 
biomarkers of amyloid, tau, and neurodegeneration measures; and Clinical 
Dementia Rating scale.
RESULTS: Subtle increases in specific ubiquitin enzymes were detected in MCs up 
to two decades before symptom onset, with more pronounced elevations in 
UPS-activating enzymes near symptom onset. Significant correlations were found 
between UPS proteins and Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers, especially between 
autophagy markers and late-stage tau biomarkers, microglia, and axonal 
degeneration.
DISCUSSION: The rise in UPS proteins alongside tau-related markers suggests UPS 
involvement in tau neurofibrillary tangles. Elevated CSF UPS proteins in DIAD 
MCs may serve as indicators of disease progression, and may support the UPS as a 
therapeutic target in AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: This study investigates the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) in 
Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer's Disease (DIAD), highlighting early molecular 
changes linked to disease progression. Using SOMAscan proteomics, we identified 
significant UPS protein alterations in cerebrospinal fluid of mutation carriers, 
notably up to 20 years before clinical symptom onset. Correlations between UPS 
protein levels and Alzheimer's biomarkers, particularly tau and 
neurodegeneration markers, suggest a strong association between UPS 
dysregulation and tau pathology in DIAD. Dynamic UPS changes align with A/T 
biological staging: UPS proteins were shown to increase across Aβ/tau (A/T) 
groups, with largest increases in the A+/T+ group, reinforcing their role in 
late-stage tau pathology and disease progression. These findings underscore the 
potential of UPS proteins as early biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease 
progression and as novel therapeutic targets, especially in tau-pathology-driven 
neurodegeneration. This work contributes to understanding AD pathogenesis, by 
emphasizing the importance of protein quality control systems and by offering 
avenues for future biomarker discovery and therapeutic development in 
Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70243
PMCID: PMC12102666
PMID: 40411302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RJB is the director of the DIAN‐TU and principal 
investigator of DIAN and the DIAN‐TU‐001 trial. Unrelated to this study, for the 
DIAN‐TU, he receives research support from the NIH, Eli Lilly and Company, F. 
Hoffman‐La Roche, Ltd., Eisai, Alzheimer's Association, GHR Foundation, 
Anonymous Organization, DIAN‐TU Pharma Consortium (Active Members: Biogen, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly and Company, Janssen, F. Hoffmann‐La Roche, Ltd./Genentech). JH 
is a paid consultant for F. Hoffmann‐La Roche, Ltd., Prothena, and Parabon 
Nanolabs, and is on a data safety and monitoring board (DSMB) for Eisai. EMM 
receives grant funding from NIA; Institutional funding from Eli Lilly, 
Hoffmann‐La Roche, Eisai. He is a DSMB member (paid directly) for Alector; Eli 
Lilly; a scientific advisory board member (paid directly to him) for Alzamend, 
Fondation Alzheimer. He acts as a consultant/advisor for Sage Therapeutics, Eli 
Lilly, Sanofi, AstraZeneca, Hoffmann La‐Roche. CC has received research support 
from GSK and EISAI. The funders of the study had no role in the collection, 
analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; or in the 
decision to submit the paper for publication. CC is a member of the advisory 
board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks in these companies. DP is an employee 
of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and holds stock in GSK. CX is supported by National 
Institute on Aging (NIA) grants R01 AG067505 and R01 AG053550. JCM is the 
Friedman Distinguished Professor of Neurology, Associate Director, Knight ADRC; 
Associate Director of DIAN, and Founding Principal Investigator of DIAN. He is 
funded by NIH grants # P30 AG066444; P01AG003991, P01AG026276, and U19 AG024904. 
Neither he nor his family owns stock or has equity interest (outside of mutual 
funds or other externally directed accounts) in any pharmaceutical or 
biotechnology company. TLSB has investigator‐initiated research funding from the 
NIH, the Alzheimer's Association, the Barnes‐Jewish Hospital Foundation, and 
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals. Dr. Benzinger participates as a site investigator in 
clinical trials sponsored by Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly and Company, 
Biogen, Eisai, Jaansen, and F. Hoffmann‐La Roche, Ltd. She also serves as an 
unpaid consultant to Eisai and Siemens and is on the speaker's bureau for 
Biogen. AER reports no competing interests. He receives research support for 
this work from the National Institute on Aging (R01AG053267, U19AG032438). TI 
reports no competing interests. He received research support for this work from 
AMED (JP23dk0207066 and JP23dk0207049). GSD reports no competing interests 
directly relevant to this work. His research is supported by NIH (K23AG064029, 
U01AG057195, U01NS120901, U19AG032438). He serves as a consultant for Parabon 
Nanolabs Inc and as a topic editor (Dementia) for DynaMed (EBSCO). He is the 
co‐project PI for a clinical trial in anti‐NMDAR encephalitis, which receives 
support from Amgen Pharmaceuticals, and a consultant for Arialys Therapeutics. 
He has developed educational materials for PeerView Media, Inc., and Continuing 
Education Inc. He owns stock in ANI pharmaceuticals. Dr. Day's institution has 
received support from Eli Lilly for development and participation in an 
educational event promoting early diagnosis of symptomatic Alzheimer's disease, 
and in‐kind contributions of radiotracer precursors for tau‐PET neuroimaging in 
studies of memory and aging (via Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Eli Lilly). RJP is Neuropathology Core Leader for the DIAN 
observational study and the DIAN Trials Unit. He receives research support for 
this work from the National Institute on Aging (U19 AG032438, U19AG032438‐09S1, 
R01AG068319). His laboratory receives cost recovery funding from Biogen for 
tissue procurement and processing services related to ALS clinical trials. 
Neither he nor his family owns stock or has equity interest (outside of mutual 
funds or other externally directed accounts) in any pharmaceutical or 
biotechnology company. FL has grants not related to this paper from NIH, DIAN, 
Enroll‐HD and BIOGEN. JL reports speaker fees from Bayer Vital, Biogen, EISAI, 
TEVA, Zambon, Esteve, Merck, and Roche; consulting fees from Axon Neuroscience, 
EISAI, and Biogen; author fees from Thieme medical publishers and W. Kohlhammer 
GmbH medical publishers; and is inventor in a patent “Oral Phenylbutyrate for 
Treatment of Human 4‐Repeat Tauopathies” (EP 23 156 122.6) filed by LMU Munich. 
In addition, he reports compensation for serving as chief medical officer for 
MODAG GmbH, is beneficiary of the phantom share program of MODAG GmbH, and is 
inventor in a patent “Pharmaceutical Composition and Methods of Use” (EP 22 159 
408.8) filed by MODAG GmbH, all activities outside the submitted work. SBB 
receives support from the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the Michael J. 
Fox Foundation. All other authors have nothing to disclose.


21. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2025 Dec;53(1):231-243. doi: 
10.1080/21691401.2025.2506591. Epub 2025 May 23.

Multimodal attention fusion deep self-reconstruction presentation model for 
Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and biomarker identification.

Huang S(1), Liu Y(2), Zhang J(3), Wang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(2)Modern Education Technology Center, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(3)The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(4)School of Computer and Control Engineering, Northeast Forestry University, 
Harbin, China.

The unknown pathogenic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) make treatment 
challenging. Neuroimaging genetics offers a method for identifying disease 
biomarkers for early diagnosis, but traditional approaches struggle with complex 
non-linear, multimodal and multi-expression data. However, traditional 
association analysis methods face challenges in handling nonlinear, multimodal 
and multi-expression data. Therefore, a multimodal attention fusion deep 
self-restructuring presentation (MAFDSRP) model is proposed to solve the above 
problem. First, multimodal brain imaging data are processed through a novel 
histogram-matching multiple attention mechanisms to dynamically adjust the 
weight of each input brain image data. Simultaneous, the genetic data are 
preprocessed to remove low-quality samples. Subsequently, the genetic data and 
fused neuroimaging data are separately input into the self-reconstruction 
network to learn the nonlinear relationships and perform subspace clustering at 
the top layer of the network. Finally, the learned genetic data and fused 
neuroimaging data are analysed through expression association analysis to 
identify AD-related biomarkers. The identified biomarkers underwent systematic 
multi-level analysis, revealing biomarker roles at molecular, tissue and 
functional levels, highlighting processes like inflammation, lipid metabolism, 
memory and emotional processing linked to AD. The experimental results show that 
MAFDSRP achieved 0.58 in association analysis, demonstrating its great potential 
in accurately identifying AD-related biomarkers.

Plain Language Summary: Improved multimodal data fusion: The multimodal 
attention fusion deep self-restructuring presentation (MAFDSRP) model aligns 
distributions across multimodal neuroimaging data and dynamically adjusts fusion 
weights, enhancing consistency and analytical performance.Comprehensive 
biomarker identification: The model maps nonlinear features and clusters 
subspaces, identifying Alzheimer’s disease (AD)-related biomarkers across 
multiple genetic expression levels for a deeper understanding of AD 
mechanisms.Advancements in AD diagnosis: The identified biomarkers reveal 
critical roles in inflammatory response, lipid metabolism and memory processing, 
improving diagnostic accuracy and insights into AD pathology.

DOI: 10.1080/21691401.2025.2506591
PMID: 40411137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Intern Med. 2025 Jul;298(1):31-45. doi: 10.1111/joim.20098. Epub 2025 May
23.

Implementing early detection of cognitive impairment in primary care to improve 
care for older adults.

Fowler NR(1)(2)(3), Partrick KA(4), Taylor J(4), Hornbecker M(5), Kelleher K(6), 
Boustani M(7), Cummings JL(8), MacLeod T(5), Mielke MM(9), Brosch JR(10)(11), 
Lee J(4), Shobin E(12), Galvin JE(13), Fillit H(12), Udeh-Momoh C(9)(14), Willis 
DR(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(2)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)Regenstrief Institute, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(4)Voices of Alzheimer's, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative, Wayne, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Executive Healthcare Services, Reston, Virginia, USA.
(7)Division of Geriatrics and General Internal Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(8)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, School of Integrated Health Sciences, University of Nevada at Las Vegas, 
Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(10)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(12)Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, New York, New York, USA.
(13)Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry, Comprehensive Center for Brain 
Health, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine, Boca Raton, Florida, 
USA.
(14)Brain and Mind Institute, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(15)Department of Family Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

Primary care is the ideal setting for early detection of mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), as it 
serves as the primary point of care for most older adults. With the growing 
aging population, reliance on specialists for detection and diagnosis is 
unsustainable, highlighting the need for primary care-led assessment. Recent 
research findings on successful brain health prevention strategies, AD 
diagnostic tools, and anti-amyloid treatments empower primary care to play a 
central role in early detection and intervention. Primary care-focused resources 
are being developed, including tools for cognitive assessments and materials 
designed to educate patients about brain health and initiate discussions on 
lifestyle modifications, thereby making early detection more feasible and 
efficient. Identifying risk factors early enables providers to implement 
interventions that can slow cognitive decline and improve outcomes for patients 
and caregivers. If left undetected and unmanaged, MCI and ADRD can lead to worse 
outcomes, including increased falls, hospitalizations, financial vulnerability, 
and caregiver stress. Early detection enables the identification of reversible 
causes of cognitive impairment, supports the management of comorbidities 
worsened by cognitive decline, mitigates safety risks, and can preserve quality 
of life. Importantly, primary care is essential for addressing ADRD-related 
health disparities that disproportionately affect racial minorities, rural 
populations, and those of lower socioeconomic status. With a focus on the United 
States healthcare system, this perspective addresses how implementing early 
detection practices into primary care can improve outcomes for patients and 
caregivers, reduce societal burdens, and promote health equity in ADRD care.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Internal Medicine published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of Association for Publication of The Journal of Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.20098
PMCID: PMC12159721
PMID: 40410933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: N.R.F. has grants from the National Institutes 
of Health. K.A.P. and J.L. received compensation from Voices of Alzheimer's for 
editorial services related to this manuscript. J.T. is the founder and CEO of 
Voices of Alzheimer's. J.L.C. has provided consultation to Acadia, Acumen, 
ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, Bristol‐Myers 
Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Green Valley, Janssen, Karuna, Kinoxis, 
Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, 
ReMYND, Roche, Scottish Brain Sciences, Signant Health, Simcere, sinaptica, 
TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. 
J.L.C. is supported by NIGMS grant P20GM109025; NIA R35AG71476; NIA 
R25AG083721‐01; NINDS RO1NS139383; Alzheimer's Disease Drug Discovery Foundation 
(ADDF); Ted and Maria Quirk Endowment; Joy Chambers‐Grundy Endowment. M.B. 
serves as a Chief Scientific Officer and Co‐Founder of BlueAgilis; the Chief 
Health Officer of DigiCare Realized, Inc.; and the Chief Health Officer of 
Mozyne health, Inc. M.B. has equity interest in Blue Agilis, Inc.; DigiCare 
Realized, Inc.; and Mozyne Health, Inc. M.B. sold his equity in Preferred 
Population Health Management LLC; and MyShift, Inc. (previously known as RestUp, 
LLC). M.B. serves as an advisory board member or consultant for Eli Lilly and 
Co.; Eisai, Inc.; Merck & Co Inc.; Biogen Inc.; and Genentech Inc. M.M.M. has 
served on scientific advisory boards and/or has consulted for Althira, Biogen, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Lilly, Merck, Roche, and Siemens Healthineers received speaking 
honorariums from Novo Nordisk, PeerView Institute, and Roche and receives grant 
support from the National Institute of Health, Department of Defense, 
Alzheimer's Association, and Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative. J.E.G. has grants 
from the National Institutes of Health, serves as Chief Scientific Officer for 
Cognivue, Inc., and serves as a consultant for Biogen, BMS, CervoMed, Cognivue, 
Cognition Therapeutics, Eisai, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, Lundbeck, and Roche. 
M.H. receives consulting fees from the Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative and 
Neurotrack Technologies and has served on advisory boards for Eisai, Novo 
Nordisk, and Eli Lilly. M.H. is a shareholder of Eli Lilly. T.M. receives 
consulting fees from the Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative. H.F. has consulted 
with Alector, LifeWorx, Mediflix, Samus Therapeutics, Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, 
and Pinteon Therapeutics and has served as an unpaid consultant for Eli Lilly. 
E.S. is a shareholder of Eli Lilly, Biogen, and AbbVie. K.K. and D.R.W. declare 
no conflicts of interest. J.R.B. serves on advisory boards for Eli Lilly, Eisai, 
and AbbVie and receives research support from Alzheimer's Association Part of 
the Cloud award, AbbVie, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Athira, Biogen, Eisai America 
Inc, Eli Lilly and Company, F. Hoffman‐La Roche Ltd., Washington University, 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals, and University of Southern California. C.U. is a paid 
consultant at Aga Khan University and receives research grant support from the 
National Institute of Health, Alzheimer's Association, UK Medical Research 
Council, UK Defence and Security Accelerator, Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative, 
and Wellcome Leap and Temasek Trust.


23. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70305. doi: 10.1002/alz.70305.

STING deletion protects against amyloid β-induced Alzheimer's disease 
pathogenesis.

Thanos JM(1)(2)(3), Campbell OC(1), Cowan MN(1), Bruch KR(4), Moore KA(1), 
Ennerfelt HE(5), Natale NR(1)(2), Mangalmurti A(1)(2), Kerur N(6)(7)(8), Lukens 
JR(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Center for Brain Immunology and Glia (BIG), 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA.
(3)Brain Immunology and Glia Graduate Training Program, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, the Ohio State University 
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(7)Ohio State Havener Eye Institute, the Ohio State University Wexner Medical 
Center, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(8)Department of Microbial Infection and Immunity, the Ohio State University 
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio, USA.

INTRODUCTION: While immune dysfunction has been increasingly linked to 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression, many major innate immune signaling 
molecules have yet to be explored in AD pathogenesis using genetic targeting 
approaches.
METHODS: To investigate a role for the key innate immune adaptor molecule, 
stimulator of interferon genes (STING), in AD, we deleted Sting1 in the 5xFAD 
mouse model of AD-related amyloidosis and evaluated the effects on pathology, 
neuroinflammation, gene expression, and cognition.
RESULTS: Genetic ablation of STING in 5xFAD mice led to improved control of 
amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques, alterations in microglial activation status, 
decreased levels of neuritic dystrophy, and protection against cognitive 
decline. Moreover, rescue of neurological disease in STING-deficient 5xFAD mice 
was characterized by reduced expression of type I interferon signaling genes in 
both microglia and excitatory neurons.
DISCUSSION: These findings reveal critical roles for STING in Aβ-driven 
neurological disease and suggest that STING-targeting therapeutics may offer 
promising strategies to treat AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) deficiency in the 5xFAD mouse 
model of Alzheimer's disease-related amyloidosis results in decreased amyloid 
beta (Aβ) deposition and altered microglial activation status. Protection 
against amyloidosis in STING-deficient 5xFAD mice is associated with decreased 
expression of genes involved in type I IFN signaling, improved neuronal health, 
and reduced levels of oxidative stress. Loss of STING in 5xFAD mice leads to 
improved spatial learning and memory.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70305
PMCID: PMC12101966
PMID: 40410932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


24. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70317. doi: 10.1002/alz.70317.

Longitudinal neuropsychological evaluation allows diagnosis of MCI with less 
severe memory change.

Locke DEC(1), Langlais B(2), Woolston D(1), Woodruff BK(3), Stonnington CM(4), 
Baxter L(1), Caselli RJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neuropsychology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA.
(2)Division of Clinical Trials and Biostatistics, Department of Quantitative 
Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: We previously demonstrated that single-domain amnestic mild 
cognitive impairment (SDAm-MCI) detected through longitudinal neuropsychological 
testing in our research cohort is less severe than in clinically incident 
symptomatic individuals. This study aims to replicate and expand this work using 
a National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center dataset.
METHODS: Participants were classified into two groups: those enrolled with 
normal cognition (Normal Enrollees) and those enrolled with SDAm-MCI (Amnestic 
Enrollees). Groups were compared at the time of diagnosis and on rates of 
cognitive decline post-diagnosis.
RESULTS: At SDAm-MCI diagnosis, Normal Enrollees were 17% to 39% less impaired 
on memory tasks, after which the slope of change over time steepened compared to 
their pre-symptomatic change and was steeper than in Amnestic Enrollees.
DISCUSSION: Incident MCI detected through longitudinal neuropsychological 
testing is initially milder but may progress more steeply than in clinically 
established MCI. Sensitive assessment of cognitive decline is essential for 
capturing early changes that are more likely to be amenable to therapeutic 
treatment.
HIGHLIGHTS: Longitudinal cognitive evaluation detects symptomatic Alzheimer's 
disease earlier than mental status exams. At the time of diagnosis, converters 
were less impaired compared to initially symptomatic patients. Converters' 
cognition declined more steeply than initially symptomatic patients. Sensitive 
cognitive tests are essential to capture early changes, given new 
disease-modifying therapies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70317
PMCID: PMC12101964
PMID: 40410931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dona E. C. Locke: none, Blake Langlais: none, 
Dixie Woolston: none, Bryan K. Woodruff: none, Cynthia M. Stonnington: none, 
Leslie Baxter: none, Richard J. Caselli: Dr. Caselli received a consulting fee 
from Eli Lilly and consults for SPARK Neuroscience. Neither of these is related 
to this work. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


25. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70288. doi: 10.1002/alz.70288.

The performance of plasma p-tau217 in Black middle-aged and older adults.

Ennis GE(1)(2), Norton D(1)(2)(3), Langhough RE(1)(2)(4), Gooding DC(1)(2)(5), 
Carter FP(1)(2), Wilson R(1)(4), Zuelsdorff M(1)(4)(6), Bouges S(1)(2)(7), 
Asthana S(1)(2), Johnson SC(1)(2)(4), Zetterberg H(1)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Gleason 
CE(1)(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(6)School of Nursing, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(7)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), Wm. S. Middleton VA 
Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Mölndals Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(10)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute, London, UK.
(12)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Shatin, Hong Kong.

INTRODUCTION: Medical conditions prevalent in Black adults within the United 
States have been associated with plasma tau phosphorylated at threonine 217 
(p-tau217); however, insufficient p-tau217 research has been conducted with 
Black adults.
METHODS: Participants included n = 233 predominantly cognitively unimpaired 
adults enrolled in the African Americans Fighting Alzheimer's in Midlife study. 
Subsamples had creatinine (n = 137) and positron emission tomography (PET; 
amyloid-PET = 65 [amyloid-PET-positive = 16/65]; tau-PET = 70). We tested 
whether p-tau217 (ALZPath, Inc.) varied by medical condition and amyloid- and 
tau-PET-positivity status and assessed the diagnostic accuracy of p-tau217.
RESULTS: Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2, 
cardiovascular disease (CVD), and amyloid- and tau-PET-positive status 
demonstrated higher p-tau217. Effect sizes (rpb): eGFR <60 group = 0.48, 
CVD = 0.25, amyloid-PET-positive status = 0.54; tau-PET-positive status = 0.56. 
Lower eGFR was related to higher p-tau217 when adjusting for amyloid-PET. For 
abnormal amyloid-PET and tau-PET, p-tau217 exhibited areas under the curve of 
0.90 and 0.89, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 showed promise as an Alzheimer's biomarker in Black 
adults; however, kidney function and CVD should be considered when interpreting 
levels.
HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma tau phosphorylated at threonine 217 (p-tau217) was tested in 
a sample of Black middle-aged and older adults. Level of p-tau217 was higher in 
impaired kidney function and cardiovascular disease. Obesity and diabetes were 
not related to p-tau217. Level of p-tau217 was higher in amyloid- and 
tau-PET-positive status. Plasma p-tau217 showed good receiver-operating 
characteristic area under the curve for abnormal amyloid- and tau-PET.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70288
PMCID: PMC12101965
PMID: 40410928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Carey E. Gleason is a scientific advisor for 
Huntington Research Institute, is a member of Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center External Advisory Boards (Stanford University; University of New Mexico), 
is the Chair of the Institutional Data and Safety Monitoring Board for a 
National Institute on Aging (NIA)–funded study (R01‐AG074971), and has been a 
scientific advisor for a documentary film Matter of Mind: My Alzheimer's 
produced in partnership with the Public Broadcasting Service. Carey E. Gleason 
and Megan Zuelsdroff are members of the Scientific Advisory Board for an 
NIA‐funded study (UH2AG083258). Megan Zuelsdroff is a Senior Associate Editor 
for Alzheimer's & Dementia. Sanjay Asthana was an editor of Hazzard's Geriatric 
Medicine and Gerontology (McGraw Hill). Sterling C. Johnson has served as a 
consultant to Enigma and ALZpath. Henrik Zetterberg. has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). Gilda E. Ennis, 
Derek Norton, Rebecca E. Langhough, Diane C. Gooding, Fabu P. Carter, Rachael 
Wilson, and Shenikqua Bouges have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


26. J Am Coll Radiol. 2025 May;22(5S):S202-S233. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2025.02.031.

ACR Appropriateness Criteria® Dementia: 2024 Update.

Expert Panel on Neurological Imaging; Soderlund KA(1), Austin MJ(2), Ben-Haim 
S(3), Chu S(4), Ivanidze J(5), Joshi P(6), Kalnins A(7), Kennedy M(8), 
Kulshreshtha A(9), Kuo PH(10), Masdeu JC(11), Nikumbh T(12), Soares BP(13), 
Thaker AA(14), Wang LL(15), Yasar S(16), Shih RY(17).

Author information:
(1)Panel Chair, Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Virginia. 
Electronic address: karl.a.soderlund.mil@health.mil.
(2)University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia.
(3)University of California, San Diego, School of Medicine/UC San Diego Health, 
San Diego, California; American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of 
Neurological Surgeons.
(4)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, and University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York.
(6)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona; American Psychiatric 
Association.
(7)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(8)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts; American College of Emergency Physicians.
(9)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia; American Academy of Family Physicians.
(10)University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona; Commission on Nuclear Medicine and 
Molecular Imaging.
(11)Houston Methodist and Weill Cornell Medicine, Houston, Texas; American 
Academy of Neurology.
(12)The Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education, Scranton, Pennsylvania; 
American College of Physicians.
(13)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(14)University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado.
(15)University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(16)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland; American 
Geriatrics Society.
(17)Specialty Chair, Uniformed Services University, Bethesda, Maryland.

Dementia is defined by significant chronic or acquired impairment in a single 
domain or loss of two or more cognitive functions by brain disease or injury. It 
is a common chronic syndrome in adults and constitutes the fifth leading cause 
of death in patients >65 years of age. Multiple etiologies of dementia exist, 
most notably Alzheimer disease, frontotemporal dementia, and dementia with Lewy 
bodies, as well as other neurologic diseases such as vascular dementia and 
normal pressure hydrocephalus. In addition to aiding clinicians in selecting the 
most appropriate imaging test for patients suspected of one of these dementia 
syndromes, this document highlights the most appropriate initial imaging tests 
for patients with suspected mild cognitive impairment and rapidly progressive 
dementia, as well as the most appropriate pre- and posttreatment imaging tests 
for patients undergoing therapy with antiamyloid monoclonal antibodies. The 
American College of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria are evidence-based 
guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are reviewed annually by a 
multidisciplinary expert panel. The guideline development and revision process 
support the systematic analysis of the medical literature from peer reviewed 
journals. Established methodology principles such as Grading of Recommendations 
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation or GRADE are adapted to evaluate the 
evidence. The RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method User Manual provides the 
methodology to determine the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures 
for specific clinical scenarios. In those instances where peer reviewed 
literature is lacking or equivocal, experts may be the primary evidentiary 
source available to formulate a recommendation.

Copyright © 2025 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2025.02.031
PMID: 40409878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Pharmacol Res. 2025 Jun;216:107790. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107790. Epub
2025  May 21.

Phytochemical regulation of CaMKII in Alzheimer's disease: A review of molecular 
mechanisms and therapeutic potential.

Lin Z(1), Sun M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, PR China. Electronic address: linzhy228@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, PR China. Electronic address: sunm28@126.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that leads to 
cognitive decline. CaMKII is a calcium-regulated kinase that is crucial for 
synaptic plasticity and memory. Phytochemicals with diverse origins, safety, and 
biological activity have attracted considerable attention in AD research. This 
systematic analysis of phytochemicals targeting CaMKII reveals their 
neuroprotective mechanisms against AD pathogenesis, highlighting CaMKII as a 
promising therapeutic target that warrants further preclinical investigation and 
drug development. We conducted a comprehensive review of the literature of 
phytochemicals that target CaMKII as a protective mechanism against AD. The 
search was conducted across multiple databases, including PubMed, Web of 
Science, China National Knowledge Internet, and Google Scholar, and covered the 
period from January 2000 to October 2024. A total of 301 articles were 
retrieved, of which 22 articles were included. The results showed that 
flavonoid, glycoside, terpene, and polyphenol analogs positively regulated 
CaMKII expression, whereas alkaloid analogs negatively regulated CaMKII 
expression. Different components of traditional Chinese medicine played 
different roles in CaMKII expression. Flavonoid compounds upregulated the 
expression of SYN, PSD-95, MAP2, and GluR1 to exert neuroprotective effects. 
Alkaloid and glycoside analogs inhibited Aβ deposition and tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Terpene analogs upregulated the SYN, PSD-95, NMDAR, BDNF, 
and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways to exert neuroprotection. Polyphenol analogs 
upregulated PSD-95, Munc18-1, SNAP25, SYN, and BDNF to exert neuroprotective 
effects. Emerging evidence demonstrates that select phytochemicals and 
traditional Chinese medicine compounds exert neuroprotective effects in AD by 
modulating CaMKII activity, thereby reducing Aβ accumulation, attenuating tau 
hyperphosphorylation, and enhancing synaptic plasticity, suggesting promising 
therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107790
PMID: 40409522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


28. J Control Release. 2025 Aug 10;384:113870. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.113870.  Epub 2025 May 21.

Fully biodegradable dendrimers as novel nanodrugs for Amyloid-β-induced 
neurotoxicity.

Moreira DA(1), Carvalho ED(2), Ferreira-da-Silva F(3), Santos SD(4), Leiro V(5), 
Pêgo AP(6).

Author information:
(1)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; INEB - Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal; FEUP - Faculdade de Engenharia da Universidade do Porto, R. Dr. 
Roberto Frias s/n, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal.
(2)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; INEB - Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal.
(3)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; IBMC - Instituto de Biologia 
Molecular e Celular, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal.
(4)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; INEB - Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal. Electronic address: sasantos@i3s.up.pt.
(5)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; INEB - Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal. Electronic address: victoria.leiro@i3s.up.pt.
(6)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal; INEB - Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 208, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal; ICBAS - Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, Universidade do 
Porto, R. de Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal. Electronic 
address: apego@i3s.up.pt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe neurological disorder and the leading cause 
of dementia, affecting millions globally. Dendrimers are remarkable organic 
macromolecules characterised by a globular, well-defined and highly branched 
structure featuring a high number of tuneable functional groups on their 
surface. Different types of dendrimers have demonstrated antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, and anti-amyloidogenic properties, showing their potential as 
powerful nanodrugs in AD. However, none of these dendrimers exhibit 
biodegradability under physiological conditions. This study explored the 
therapeutic potential of biodegradable PEG-GATGE (Poly(Ethylene Glycol)-Gallic 
Acid-Triethylene Glycol Ester) block copolymers against the Amyloid β (Aβ) 
(1-42) peptide, a key player in AD pathology. We focused on two dendritic 
structures: one functionalised with positively charged benzylamine terminal 
groups (fbB) and another functionalised with negatively charged benzoic acid 
terminal groups (fbBz). Our research aimed to evaluate their ability to inhibit 
Aβ (1-42) fibrillation by examining aggregation kinetics, secondary structure, 
and aggregate morphology. Additionally, we assessed their interactions with 
preformed Aβ species and neuroprotective effects in hippocampal neuron cultures. 
Results showed that both dendrimers modulate Aβ fibrillation in a 
peptide/dendrimer ratio-dependent manner and can also interact with preformed Aβ 
fibrils. Notably, only the positively charged dendrimer, fbB, effectively 
prevented the toxic association of Aβ oligomers with neurons. These findings 
emphasise the substantial promise of this family of biodegradable dendrimers as 
innovative nanodrugs in the fight against AD, paving the way for novel 
therapeutic strategies in neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.113870
PMID: 40409371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


29. Lancet Neurol. 2025 Jun;24(6):524-534. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00116-4.

Protective genetic variants against Alzheimer's disease.

Marino C(1), Malotaux V(2), Giudicessi A(3), Aguillon D(4), Sepulveda-Falla 
D(5), Lopera F(4), Quiroz YT(6).

Author information:
(1)The Schepens Eye Research Institute of Mass Eye and Ear and the Department of 
Ophthalmology at Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Department of 
Neurology, Sealy Institute for Drug Discovery and Mitchell Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, The University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
TX, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA; Boston University, Department of Psychological and 
Brain Sciences, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)The Neuroscience Group of Antioquia, School of Medicine, University of 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(5)The Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA; Boston University, Department of Psychological and 
Brain Sciences, Boston, MA, USA; The Neuroscience Group of Antioquia, School of 
Medicine, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia; Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: yquiroz@mgh.harvard.edu.

Genetic studies can offer powerful insights for the development of 
disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer's disease. Protective genetic variants 
that delay the onset of cognitive impairment have been found in people with 
sporadic Alzheimer's disease and in carriers of mutations that usually cause 
autosomal-dominant Alzheimer's disease in mid-life. The study of families who 
carry autosomal dominant mutations provides a unique opportunity to uncover 
genetic modifiers of disease progression, including rare variants in genes such 
as APOE and RELN. Understanding how these variants confer protection can help 
identify the biological pathways that contribute to cognitive resilience, such 
as the heparan-sulphate proteoglycan-APOE receptor pathway, the TREM-2-driven 
signalling pathways in the microglia, and phagocytosis. Therapies able to 
replicate the beneficial effects of these natural defences could provide novel 
strategies for slowing or preventing the progression of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00116-4
PMID: 40409316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests YTQ and FL are named as 
co-inventors in patents filed by Mass General Brigham-related Alzheimer's 
therapeutics targeting APOE and Reelin. YTQ and FL serve as consultants for 
Biogen. All other authors declare no competing conflicts.


30. Lancet Neurol. 2025 Jun;24(6):500-511. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00173-5.

Safety and efficacy of trehalose in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (HEALEY ALS 
Platform Trial): an adaptive, phase 2/3, double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled trial.

HEALEY ALS Platform Trial; HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Study Group.

Collaborators: Macklin E(1), Chibnik L(2), Wang J(1), Quintana M(3), Saville 
B(4), Detry M(3), Vestrucci M(3), Paulon G(3), Ho D(5), Cudkowicz M(6), Paganoni 
S(5), Berry J(5), Babu S(5), Giacomelli E(5), Felice K(7), Fernandes JA(8), 
Kushlaf H(9), Jawdat O(10), Ladha SL(11), Shefner J(11), Rosow L(12), Miller 
T(13), Swenson A(14), Elliott ME(15), Johnathan(16), Whitesell J(17), Katz 
J(18), Young E(19), Nayar S(20), Simmons Z(21), Al-Lahham T(22), Ajroud-Driss 
S(23), Zilliox L(24), Walsh A(25), Caress J(26), Foster LA(27), Gwathmey KG(28), 
Bedlack R(29), Maragakis NJ(30), Fee D(31), Kasarskis EJ(32), Owegi MA(33), 
Beydoun SR(34), Weiss MD(35), Chen IA(36), Twydell PT(37), Rosenfeld J(38), Walk 
D(39), Erickson A(40), Arcila-Londono X(41), Bayat E(42), Quick A(43), Baer 
M(44), Gibson S(45), Ilieva H(46), Connors RD(47), Locatelli E(48), Shroff 
S(49), McIlduff CE(50), Goyal NA(51), Lewis R(52), Rivner M(53), Bodkin C(54), 
Wu A(55), Alameda G(56), Chase M(5), Harkey B(5), Heyd L(5), Sherman A(5), Yu 
H(5), Hall M(11), Kittle G(11), Macklin E(1), Chibnik L(2), Hayden D(1), Lai 
P(5), Donahue R(5), Chen HW(5), Wang J(1), Quintana M(3), Saville B(4), Detry 
M(3), Vestrucci M(3), Paulon G(3), McGlothlin A(3), Ho D(5), McCaffrey A(5), 
Cudkowicz M(6), Paganoni S(5), Berry J(5), Babu S(5), Scalia J(5), Luppino S(5), 
Giacomelli E(5), Scirocco E(5), Heitzam D(57), Martin A(57), Felice K(7), 
Whitaker C(7), Fernandes JA(8), Piccione E(8), Thaisetthawatkul P(8), Kushlaf 
H(9), Neel R(9), Jawdat OJ(10), Farmakidis CF(10), Ladha SL(11), Jacobsen B(11), 
Milliard J(11), Bowser R(11), Shefner J(11), Rosow L(12), Lomen-Hoerth C(12), 
Miller T(13), Malcolm A(13), Swenson A(14), Nance C(14), Elliott ME(15), Ivanick 
D(15), Johnathan(16), McKinnon N(58), Whitesell J(17), Guthrie B(17), Katz 
J(18), Jenkins L(18), Young E(19), Meyer J(19), Nayar S(20), Simmons Z(21), 
Grogan J(21), Su X(21), Mamarabadi M(21), Al-Lahham T(22), Lacomis D(22), 
Ajroud-Driss S(23), Sufit R(23), Szymanski A(23), Zilliox L(24), Diaz-Abad 
M(24), Walsh A(25), Romano A(25), Caress J(26), Cartwright M(26), Foster LA(27), 
Gwathmey KG(28), Fan Q(28), Bedlack R(29), Li X(29), Parker S(29), Maragakis 
NJ(30), Clawson LL(30), Uchil A(30), Riley K(30), Arneklev J(30), Fee D(31), 
Shrilla D(31), Kasarskis EJ(32), Mahuwala Z(32), Kumaraswamy VVM(32), Owegi 
MA(33), Brown RH(33), Daniello K(33), Beydoun SR(34), Darki L(34), Rodriguez 
R(34), Weiss MD(35), Rad N(35), Wang LH(35), Chen IA(36), Suresh N(36), Farias 
J(36), Vu T(36), Twydell PT(37), Rosenfeld J(38), Kaur J(38), Walk D(39), Maiser 
S(59), Erickson A(40), Newman DS(41), Arcila-Londono X(41), Steijlen K(41), 
Bayat E(42), Quick A(43), Kolb S(43), Heintzman S(43), Baer M(44), Quinn C(44), 
Elman L(44), Gibson S(45), Bromberg M(45), Ilieva H(46), Williams L(46), 
Pasinelli P(46), Connors RD(47), Thomas FP(47), Locatelli E(48), Lopes G(48), 
Shroff S(49), Greene EP(49), McIlduff CE(50), Rutkove S(50), Goyal NA(51), 
Mullen J(51), Lewis R(52), Diaz F(52), Rivner M(53), Barnes B(53), Bodkin C(54), 
Wu A(55), Alameda G(56), Arroyave L(5), Bailey A(5), Bailey J(5), Barlow V(5), 
Bulat A(5), Changkuon G(5), Chase M(5), Cirino M(5), Dagostino D(5), Deignan 
C(5), Deirmendjian E(5), De Mattos A(5), DiStefano S(5), Drake K(5), Estes M(5), 
Faulconer K(5), Figueroa-Szostek P(5), Garozzo T(5), Harkey B(5), Hasenoehrl 
M(5), Henrique J(5), Henrique N(5), Hurwitz S(5), Igne C(5), Irwin L(5), Jentoft 
K(5), Jordan B(5), Katsovskiy I(5), Kharakozova O(5), Kolvek T(5), Korin A(5), 
La T(5), Li H(5), Novak I(5), Ostrow J(5), Pagliaro J(5), Palillo J(5), Patel 
P(5), Patterson J(5), Phan M(5), Popel N(5), Heyd L(5), Proueng S(5), Rosenthal 
J(5), Sherman A(5), Small C(5), Tarasenko N(5), Thomas M(5), Tustison E(5), 
Vigneswaran P(5), Wahab Y(5), Whitworth I(5), Wright S(5), Yu H(5), Connolly 
M(11), De Santiago D(11), Felix A(11), Garrett K(11), Hall M(11), Hamilton 
J(11), Khan K(11), Kittle G(11), Lovett M(11), Nelson L(11), Pabon M(11), Rede 
D(11), Fetouh A(60), Kamp C(61), Kennedy J(62), Woodcook J(60), Horbovetz A(60), 
McGarry A(62), Torti M(62).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School.
(2)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Harvard TH Chan 
School of Public Health.
(3)Berry Consultants.
(4)Berry Consultants; Adaptix Trials, LLC; Vanderbilt University, Department of 
Biostatistics (Adjunct faculty).
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital.
(6)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical school.
(7)Hospital for Special Care.
(8)University of Nebraska Medical Center.
(9)University of Cincinnati.
(10)University of Kansas Medical Center.
(11)Barrow Neurological Institute.
(12)University of California, San Francisco.
(13)Washington University.
(14)University of Iowa.
(15)Swedish Medical Center.
(16)McKinnon Las Vegas Clinic.
(17)Saint Alphonsus Regional Medical Center.
(18)California Pacific Medical Center.
(19)SUNY Upstate.
(20)Georgetown University.
(21)Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center.
(22)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
(23)Northwestern University.
(24)University of Maryland School of Medicine.
(25)Lehigh Valley Health Network.
(26)Wake Forest University School of Medicine.
(27)University of Colorado Anschutz.
(28)Virginia Commonwealth University.
(29)Duke University.
(30)Johns Hopkins University.
(31)Medical College of Wisconsin.
(32)University of Kentucky.
(33)University of Massachusetts, Worcester.
(34)University of Southern California.
(35)University of Washington.
(36)University of South Florida, College of Medicine.
(37)Corewell Health.
(38)Loma Linda University School of Medicine.
(39)University of Minnesota.
(40)Essentia Health.
(41)Henry Ford Hospital.
(42)George Washington University, MFA.
(43)Ohio State University.
(44)University of Pennsylvania.
(45)University of Utah.
(46)Jefferson Weinberg ALS Center.
(47)Hackensack University Medical Center.
(48)Nova Southeastern University.
(49)Methodist Neurological Institute.
(50)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
(51)University of California, Irvine Medical Center.
(52)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
(53)Augusta University.
(54)Indiana University.
(55)Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center.
(56)Holy Cross Hospital.
(57)Texas Neurology, PA.
(58)Las Vegas Clinic.
(59)University of Minnesota/Twin Cities ALS Research Consortium.
(60)Clinical Materials Services Unit (University of Rochester).
(61)Clinical Materials Services Unit (University of Rochester) & Clintrex 
Research Corporation.
(62)Clintrex Research Corporation.

BACKGROUND: Trehalose is a disaccharide that activates autophagy pathways in 
animal models of neurodegenerative diseases, with the potential to catalyse 
clearance of toxic, misfolded proteins in motor neurons and slow disease 
progression in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We aimed to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of trehalose in individuals with ALS.
METHODS: The HEALEY ALS Platform Trial is a perpetual, adaptive, phase 2/3, 
randomised, double-blind, multi-regimen trial conducted at 60 geographically 
diverse sites in the USA. In the current regimen, adults with clinically 
possible, probable, laboratory-supported probable, or definite ALS, defined by 
the revised El Escorial criteria, were randomly allocated (3:1), stratified by 
use of edaravone and riluzole, to receive trehalose 0·75 g per kg intravenously 
weekly over 24 weeks, or matching placebo. The primary outcome was a composite 
of the relative rate of disease progression, as measured by the Revised ALS 
Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS-R), and survival over 24 weeks, estimated in a 
Bayesian shared-parameter model. The study included prespecified stopping rules 
for futility; interim analyses occurred every 12 weeks. The primary outcome was 
analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle in all participants in 
the trehalose group, the placebo group within the regimen, and placebo groups 
from other contributing regimens; the safety analysis population was comprised 
of all participants who initiated treatment. This study is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT05136885.
FINDINGS: Between Feb 21, 2022, and Feb 17, 2023, 1021 participants were 
screened for the platform trial and 171 were assigned to the trehalose regimen. 
Of these, 161 participants met eligibility criteria, with 120 randomly allocated 
to trehalose and 41 to regimen-specific placebo. 164 participants randomly 
allocated to placebo in other regimens were added for analysis (totalling 205 
placebo recipients). The disease rate ratio for change in ALSFRS-R and survival 
was 0·87 (95% credible interval 0·665-1·102, posterior probability of 
superiority 0·877). Serious adverse events occurred in 19 (16%) participants in 
the trehalose group and three (7%) participants in the regimen-only placebo 
group, leading to premature discontinuations in 14 (12%) versus one (2%), 
respectively. Fatal treatment-emergent adverse events occurred in seven 
participants in the trehalose group and none in the regimen-only placebo group. 
No death was considered related to the trial drug. The most common cause of 
death was respiratory failure, consistent with the natural history of ALS.
INTERPRETATION: Trehalose was well tolerated but there was no evidence to 
suggest a difference in ALS disease progression compared with placebo in this 
study. No statistical benefit was seen in secondary clinical or biomarker 
measures, suggesting that trehalose at this dosage is unlikely to be efficacious 
for treatment of ALS.
FUNDING: AMG Charitable Foundation, Tackle ALS, the ALS Association, ALS Finding 
a Cure, the Muscular Dystrophy Association, ALS ONE, the Arthur M Blank Family 
Foundation, I AM ALS, Tambourine ALS Collaborative, and other community 
fundraising initiatives and donors. Study drug and partial regimen-related 
funding was provided by Seelos.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00173-5
PMID: 40409314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests SA-D reports research 
support from Biogen, Amylyx, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America, Alnylam, 
Novartis, and Sanofi; personal consulting fees from Biogen and Amylyx; and 
serving as a paid educational presenter for Biogen. RB reports research support 
from the ALS Association, MediciNova, and the Healey Center; and other financial 
support from AB Science, Alexion, the ALS Association, Amylyx, Apellis, Biogen, 
Black Swan, Brainstorm Cell, Clarivate, Clearview, Clene, Corcept, Cytokinetics, 
GenieUs, Guidepoint, Health Advances, IQVIA, ITF Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Maple 
Health Care, MJH, the National Association of Managed Care Physicians, 
Neurosense, PTC Therapeutics, Projects In Knowledge, Shinkei, Springer 
Publishing, CM Group, UCB, UMA Education, Webb MD, and Woolsey. SRB reports 
research support from the Healey Center, Amylyx, AB Science, Sanofi, Janssen, 
Genentech, Regeneron, UCB, and Abcuro; and consulting or speaking for argenx, 
Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Amylyx, CSL Behring, Grifols, Takeda, Octapharma, and UCB. 
JBC reports research grants from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Amylyx Therapeutics, 
and Catalyst Pharmaceuticals. MEC reports consulting fees from Novartis, Roche, 
Transposon, VectorY, QurAlis, Cytokinetics, Regeneron, Pasithea, InFlectis, 
Servier, Coya, AC Immune, Aclipse, Ono, and Otsuka; being a board member at 
Praxis; and institutional research support from UCB, Biohaven, Clene, Prilenia, 
Seelos, Calico, Denali, Coya, ITB, the ALS Association, MDA, ALS Finding a Cure, 
ALS ONE, the Arthur M Blank Family Foundation, and the US National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke. JAMF reports research support from Prilenia, 
Ra, Clene, Seelos, Calico, Denali, Biohaven, PTC, Columbia University, MGH, and 
Tsumura. NAG reports research support and consulting fees from Abcuro, Alexion, 
Amylyx, Anelixis, Annexon, Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics, Calico, Clene, 
Cytokinetics, Fulcrum, Healey, Janssen, Kezar, MediciNova, Mitsubishi Tanabe 
Pharma, PTC, Sanofi, and Transposon. KGG reports honoraria for serving on 
scientific advisory boards for Alexion; consulting honoraria from Argenx, 
UCB-Ra, and Amgen; and speaker honoraria from argenx and Alexion. DHe reports 
ALS clinic support from the Muscular Dystrophy Association and the ALS 
Association; research support from Biohaven, Clene, Eledon, Prilenia, Seelos, 
Ra, Cytokinetics, Abcuro, AbbVie, Immunovant, Calico, Denali, Revance, 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, and Amylyx; and consultancy for Amylyx. DHo reports 
research funding from Prilenia, Ra, Biohaven, Clene, Seelos, Calico, Denali, 
Washington University, Transposon, Sanofi, and the Neurodegenerative Alzheimer's 
Disease and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Basket Trial; and serving on advisory 
boards for Sanofi and Biogen. HI reports research grants from the ALS 
Association, Akcea, TechVsALS, and the Healey Center; and being a site principal 
investigator for clinical trials sponsored by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Sanofi, 
and the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial. SL reports research support from the ALS 
Association, the US National Institutes of Health, Amylyx, Mitsubishi Tanabe 
Pharma, Biogen, Genentech, Sanofi, Clene, and the Healey Center; and other 
compensation from Amylyx, Sanofi, Biogen, Annexon, Genentech, UpToDate, Apellis, 
and UCB. RAL reports consultancy or participation on advisory boards for 
Annexon, argenx, CSL Behring, Dianthus, Grifols, Janssen, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, 
Takeda, and Immunovant; and serving on data safety monitoring boards for 
Boehringer Ingelheim and Novartis. EAM reports institutional research support 
from AI Therapeutics, Alector, Biohaven, Calico, Denali, ITB-MED, Janssen, 
Lilly, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America, Neurizon, Prilenia, Revalesio, Seelos, 
UCB–Ra, and Woolsey; and serving on advisory boards for Annexon, Bial Biotech, 
Chase Therapeutics, HillHurst, and Merck. NJM reports research support from 
Apellis, Biogen, Cytokinetics, Helixmith, Calico, Sanofi, Department of Defense 
ALSRP, Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
MediciNova, the ALS Association, and the US National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke; and serving as a consultant or advisory board member for 
Novartis, Akava Therapeutics, and Nura Bio. SP reports research grants from 
Amylyx, Revalesio, Eledon, Alector, UCB, Biohaven, Clene, Prilenia, Seelos, 
Calico, Denali, the US National Institutes of Health, the US Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, the US Department of Defense, the ALS Association, the 
Muscular Dystrophy Association, and Tambourine; consulting fees from Amylyx, 
Arrowhead, BMS, Clene, Iris, Eikonizo, Sola, Prilenia, Revalesio, Merck, Biogen, 
Janssen, and Cytokinetics; and educational speaker fees for PeerView and 
Medscape. MQ, MAD, MV, GP, and AM are employees of Berry Consultants. BRS is the 
owner of Adaptix Trials. JS reports consulting fees from Amylyx, Uniqure, Clene, 
Cytokinetics, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America, Annexon, Novartis, Sanofi, 
Neurosense, Neuvivo, Nura Bio, Prilenia, and argenx; and research support from 
Amylyx, Biogen, Biotie Therapies, Cytokinetics, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Alexion, 
MediciNova, Ionis, Alector, and Orphazyme. DW reports research support from the 
FDA and the Minnesota Office of Higher Education; consulting fees from Biogen, 
Amylyx, and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America; and serving on a regional board of 
the ALS Association. MDW reports honoraria for serving on scientific advisory 
boards for Alexion, UCB, argenx, Biogen, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, and Amylyx; 
serving on data safety monitoring boards for AI Therapeutics and Sanofi; acting 
as medical monitor for a NeuroNext study; consulting honoraria from Cytokinetics 
and CSL Behring; speaker honoraria from Soleo Health; and serving as a special 
government employee for the FDA. LP, WW, AL, and RM were paid employees or 
consultants and shareholders of Seelos at the time this study was conducted. All 
other authors declare no competing interests.


31. Lancet Neurol. 2025 Jun;24(6):481. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00162-0.

The International Working Group recommendations on cognitively unimpaired 
individuals.

Villain N(1), Frisoni GB(2), Feldman HH(3), Dubois B(4).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1127, CNRS 7225, Institut du Cerveau-ICM, Paris 
75651, France; AP-HP Sorbonne Université, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department 
of Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Paris, France. 
Electronic address: nicolas.villain@aphp.fr.
(2)Memory Clinic, University Hospital of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, Department of Neurosciences, 
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1127, CNRS 7225, Institut du Cerveau-ICM, Paris 
75651, France; AP-HP Sorbonne Université, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department 
of Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2025 Jul;24(7):e10. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00202-9.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00162-0
PMID: 40409306

Conflict of interest statement: NV declares research support from Fondation 
Bettencourt-Schueller, Fondation Servier, Union Nationale pour les Intérêts de 
la Médecine, Fondation Claude Pompidou, Fondation Alzheimer, Banque Publique 
d'Investissement, Lion's Club Alzheimer, and Fondation pour la Recherche sur 
l'Alzheimer; received travel grants from the Movement Disorders Society, 
Merz-Pharma, UCB Pharma, and GE Healthcare SAS; is an unpaid local principal 
investigator or sub-investigator in trials for AriBio, Biogen, Roche, Eisai, 
Janssen, Alector, Novo Nordisk, UCB Pharma, Novartis, Washington University 
School of Medicine, and Alector; is the unpaid French national coordinator in 
NCT05564169 (VHB937, Novartis); has given lectures in symposia organized by 
Eisai and the Servier Foundation; and is an unpaid expert for Janssen, 
Eli-Lilly, an Novartis. GF received funding through the Private Foundation of 
Geneva University Hospitals from Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la 
Maladie d'Alzheimer, Fondation Segré, Ivan Pictet, Race Against Dementia 
Foundation, Fondation Child Care, Fondation Edmond J Safra, Fondation Minkoff, 
Fondazione Agusta, McCall Macbain Foundation, Nicole et René Keller, and 
Fondation AETAS; received funding through the University of Geneva or Geneva 
University Hospitals for investigator initiated sponsored studies from ROCHE 
Pharmaceuticals, OM Pharma, EISAI Pharmaceuticals, Biogen Pharmaceuticals, and 
Novo Nordisk; declares funding for competitive research projects from H2020, 
Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), IMI2, Swiss National Science Foundation, 
and VELUX Foundation; received consulting fees from Biogen, Diadem, and Roche; 
and received payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, and 
GE HealthCare. HHF declares grants from Allyx Therapeutics, Vivroyon 
Therapeutics, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, and LuMind Foundation (all to UC San 
Diego); received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk, Axon Neuroscience, Arrowhead 
Pharmaceuticals, and Biosplice Therapeutic; declares travel-related fees from 
Royal Society of Canada, Novo Nordisk, Translating Research in Elder Care, 
Rainwater Charitable Foundation, and Banner Health; received advisory board fees 
from Roche/Genentech Pharmaceuticals, Tau Consortium, and Janssen; declares 
philanthropic support from Epstein Family Alzheimer's Research Collaboration; 
and has a patent for Detecting and Treating Dementia Serial Number 12/3-2691 
U.S. Patent No. PCT/US2007/07008 with royalties paid. BD reports receiving 
personal fees from Eisai and Janssen-Cilag outside the submitted work.


32. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Jun 26;159:114903. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114903.  Epub 2025 May 21.

Rejuvenation of thymus and modulation of local and systemic T cell responses in 
animal model of Alzheimer's disease following cell therapy using sperm head.

Pakravan N(1), Abbasi A(2), Hassan ZM(3), Shojaian S(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology, Medical School, Alborz University of Medical 
Sciences, Karaj, Iran. Electronic address: n.pakravan@abzums.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Iran. Electronic address: ardeshir.abbasi@modares.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Iran. Electronic address: hasan_zm@modares.ac.ir.
(4)Division of Biochemistry, Medical School, Alborz University of Medical 
Sciences, Karaj, Iran. Electronic address: s.shojaeian@abzums.ac.ir.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the balance of T cell response in the brain is 
dysregulated due to increase of T-helper 1 (Th1) and Th17 over Th2 response. 
Considering the link between local and systemic immune response, it is important 
to modulate brain pattern of T cell in harmony with the systemic immune system. 
Some studies also attempted to rejuvenate thymus which is affected in AD. Based 
on immunologic properties of sperm, previous studies demonstrated significant 
therapeutic effects of sperm head on the brain AD animal models. In this study, 
pattern of T cell response was determined locally in the brain and systemically 
in the cervical lymph nodes, and spleen. Thymus health status was also evaluated 
using forkhead box N1 (FOXN1). The results were compared between control and 
sperm head-treated AD model animals. In the brain, cervical lymph nodes, and 
spleen, treatment with sperm head significantly decreased interferon-gamma 
(IFN-γ) along with interleukin-17 (IL-17) and increased IL-4, representative of 
Th1, Th17, and Th2, respectively. Surprisingly, in the sperm head-treated AD 
model animals, significant decrease was observed in regulatory T cells (Treg), 
represented by cluster of designation 4 (CD4), CD25, and FOXP3 high expression. 
Interestingly, sperm head had significant rejuvenation effects on the thymus 
represented by increase in FOXN1. The results show that sperm head could deviate 
chronic inflammation towards a constructive inflammation. Results suggest 
revision of our attitude towards the inflammation as the results suggest that 
boosting inflammation can be more efficient than suppressing inflammation for 
treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114903
PMID: 40409106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: As inventor, Nafiseh Pakravan has 
filed a patent under the PCT related to the administration of sperm head as a 
new approach of cell therapy. The authors otherwise have no competing interests 
to disclose.


33. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Sep 15;294:117761. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117761.
Epub  2025 May 19.

New drugs approved by European medicines agency during 2024.

Hu R(1), Liu D(2), Sun X(3), Yu Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(2)Department of Critical Care Medicine, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of China 
Medical University, Shenyang, China. Electronic address: cmu4h_ld@126.com.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China. Electronic address: sunxiaofei05@163.com.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China. Electronic address: yuzhong19900318@126.com.

In 2024, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) recommended 114 new medicines for 
human use, including 48 with entirely novel active substances. These therapeutic 
agents span diverse areas such as oncology, neurology, infectious diseases, 
metabolic disorders, and vaccines. Notably, 16 (14 %) of these approvals 
received orphan drug designation for the treatment of rare diseases. Key 
milestones included the endorsement of the first drug proven to slow Alzheimer's 
disease progression and the first vaccine to protect adults against chikungunya 
virus. Regulatory advancements played a critical role, with accelerated pathways 
facilitating the approval of innovative medicines to address unmet medical 
needs, including novel antibiotics targeting multidrug-resistant bacterial 
infections and therapies for antimicrobial resistance. EMA also made significant 
strides in addressing medicine shortages by implementing the European Shortages 
Monitoring Platform (ESMP) and enhancing communication with stakeholders for 
critical drugs such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists. This 
review examines the synthesis and clinical applications of newly approved drugs 
by the EMA in 2024, with a focus on their development pathways and therapeutic 
impact. By analyzing these innovative medicines, the review aims to provide 
insights into modern drug synthesis strategies and regulatory frameworks, 
fostering further advancements in pharmaceutical research and development.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117761
PMID: 40409054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


34. Phytomedicine. 2025 Jul 25;143:156876. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156876.
Epub  2025 May 18.

Neuroprotective effects of Gastrodia elata and its compounds in a Caenorhabditis 
elegans Alzheimer's disease model.

Zhang Y(1), Zhao X(2), Gong L(3), Lai C(4), Liu J(5), Xie J(6).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Collaborative 
Innovation in Great Health, College of Biotechnology and Food Science, Tianjin 
University of Commerce, Tianjin 300134, China. Electronic address: 
zhyqing@tjcu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Cleveland State University, Cleveland, OH 44115, 
United States.
(3)College of Biotechnology and Food Science, Tianjin University of Commerce, 
Tianjin 300134, China.
(4)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Collaborative 
Innovation in Great Health, College of Biotechnology and Food Science, Tianjin 
University of Commerce, Tianjin 300134, China. Electronic address: 
laicjs@tjcu.edu.cn.
(5)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Collaborative 
Innovation in Great Health, College of Biotechnology and Food Science, Tianjin 
University of Commerce, Tianjin 300134, China.
(6)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic address: xiejb@tjutcm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by learning and memory impairments, primarily caused by excessive 
β-amyloid protein (Aβ) accumulation, which induces neurotoxicity and metabolic 
dysfunction. Gastrodia elata (GE), a medicinal herb, has demonstrated 
antioxidant, antidepressant, and neuroprotective properties, making it a 
promising candidate for treating neurological diseases. However, systematic 
studies on its active compounds improving learning and memory through targeted 
metabolomics remain limited.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of Gastrodia 
elata (GE) and its active compounds, with a specific focus on learning and 
memory impairments in Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: Using Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) models of AD, the effects of 
GE and its active compounds were assessed through chemotaxis assays, targeted 
metabolomics, and LC-QQQ-MS analysis. Key neurotransmitter levels, including 
l-Leucine (l-Leu), l-Phenylalanine (l-Phe), γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and 
Acetylcholine (ACh), were quantified. The study also utilized principal 
component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant 
analysis (OPLS-DA) to investigate metabolic biomarkers.
RESULTS: Parishin E (BG E) was identified as the most effective compound in 
reducing Aβ levels and modulating key biomarkers associated with learning and 
memory impairments. LC-QQQ-MS analysis showed that BG E restored 
neurotransmitter levels closer to those of healthy controls. GE extracts (100 
μg/ml) and the positive control Huperzine A (Hup A, 8 μg/ml) significantly 
delayed paralysis in AD C. elegans models. PCA and OPLS-DA analyses confirmed 
that BG E normalized metabolic biomarkers and key neurotransmitter levels 
associated with AD.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of Gastrodia 
elata, particularly its active compound Parishin E (BG E), in mitigating 
learning and memory impairments in Alzheimer's disease. This study provides a 
foundation for further validation in advanced models and supports the 
development of natural therapeutics for neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156876
PMID: 40408941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


35. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Jul-Aug;64:103375. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.05.014.
Epub  2025 May 22.

Research progress and hotspots of the impact of Mediterranean diet on aging from 
2004 to 2023: A bibliometric analysis.

Xu J(1), Zou H(2), Shu C(3), Liu Y(4), Yin Y(5), Ni B(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266071, PR China.
(2)Department of Hepatobilary and Pancreatic Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Qingdao University, Qingdao 266003, PR China.
(3)Department of Stomatology, Qingdao Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, 
Qingdao Hiser Hospital Affiliated to Qingdao University, Qingdao 266033, PR 
China.
(4)Department of Basic Medical, Qingdao Huanghai University, Qingdao 266427, PR 
China.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266003, PR China.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266003, PR China. Electronic address: nibeibei@qdu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to identify research hotspots and trends by 
conducting a bibliometric report regarding the impact of MD on aging.
METHODS: Publications on MD and aging were extracted from the Web of Science 
Core Collection. R software, VOSviewer and CiteSpace were employed to detect 
research hotspots and frontiers.
RESULTS: The number of annual articles has grown rapidly. The core research 
content in this field are the mechanism of the antiaging action of MD 
(inflammation, oxidative stress and gut microbiome) and age-related diseases 
(particularly cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer's disease and metabolic 
syndrome). The interplay between MD and the gut microbiome or physical activity 
impacting healthy aging has been the recent hotspot and research frontier.
CONCLUSION: This study quantitatively and objectively described the research 
status and research focus of the impact of MD on aging, which provides reference 
for future research in this field.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.05.014
PMID: 40408818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


36. Neurol India. 2025 May 1;73(3):488-494. doi: 10.4103/neuroindia.NI_1615_20.
Epub  2025 May 23.

Serum Cytokine 6, 10 and α-Tumour Necrosis Factor Levels in Alzheimer's Disease 
Subjects Treated with Donepezil Plus Vitamin B12.

Yeram N(1), Dalvi SM(1), Kale VP(2), Patil VW(3), Mankeshwar R(4), Jagiasi K(5), 
Abichandani LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Biochemistry, GGMC and Sir J. J. Group of Hospitals, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, GGMC and Sir J. J. Group of Hospitals, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Vedantaa Medical College, Vedantaa Hospital and 
Research Centre, Dahanu, Maharashtra, India.
(4)Department of Community Medicine, GGMC and Sir J. J. Group of Hospitals, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.
(5)Department of Neurology, GGMC and Sir J. J. Group of Hospitals, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, India.

BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammation is a key feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the serum levels of 
Cytokine 6 (Cyto-6), Cytokine 10 (Cyto-10), and alpha-tumor necrosis factor 
(α-TNF) in Alzheimer's disease patients and observe the effects of donepezil 
plus vitamin B12 (VB12) treatment on these cytokines.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Seventy-one AD cases and 70 controls with age more than 
60 years. Cyto-6, Cyto-10, and α-TNF were measured using the Chemiluminescence 
Immulite 1000 system, Siemens. Alzheimer's disease subjects were treated with 
donepezil (5 mg/day) plus VB12 (1.5 mg/day) supplement for 6 months, and serum 
cytokine levels were reinvestigated. Statistical analysis was done using SPSS 
software.
RESULT: Cyto-6, Cyto-10, and α-TNF values were raised in Alzheimer's disease as 
compared to controls (P < 0.001) [AD (Cyto-6: 10.27 ± 2.76 pg/ml; Cyto-10: 6.2 ± 
1.48 pg/ml; α-TNF: 26.49 ± 6.85 pg/ml) and Control (Cyto-6: 3.29 ± 0.77 pg/ml; 
Cyto-10: 8.213 ± 0.787 pg/ml; α-TNF: 5.18 ± 1.65 pg/ml)]. After 6 months, a 
significant decrease (P < 0.01) was observed in Cyto-6 (7.95 ± 2.21 pg/ml), 
Cyto-10 (4.77 ± 1.12 pg/ml), and α-TNF (22.67 ± 7.00 pg/ml) levels in AD.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that serum Cyto-6, Cyto-10, and α-TNF play an 
inflammatory role in Alzheimer's disease progression. Combined therapy of 
donepezil and VB12 supplement showed a beneficial effect in reducing 
inflammation. This study might benefit further research along with molecular 
follow-up studies for development of novel therapeutic strategies in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Copyright © 2025 Neurology India, Neurological Society of India.

DOI: 10.4103/neuroindia.NI_1615_20
PMID: 40408576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Sci Adv. 2025 May 23;11(21):eadt7981. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adt7981. Epub 2025
May  23.

Disruption of BAG3-mediated BACE1 stabilization alleviates neuropathology and 
memory deficits in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Xia L(1), Li J(1), Pang Y(1), Dai C(1)(2), Xu M(1), Du Y(1), Tian Q(1), Yi L(1), 
Wu B(1), Chen M(1), Qiu Y(3), Cheng C(4), Wang YT(5), Song W(6)(7), Dong Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Growth, Development, and Mental Health of Children and Adolescence Center, 
Pediatric Research Institute, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child 
Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health 
and Disorders, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Neurodevelopment and Cognitive 
Disorders, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 
400014, China.
(2)Department of Children Health Care, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical 
Center, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510623, China.
(3)Clinical Laboratory of Changshou District Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chongqing 401220, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(5)Department of Medicine, Brain Research Centre, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5, 
Canada.
(6)Center for Geriatric Medicine, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of 
Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital and Institute of Aging, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325000, China.
(7)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325001, China.

Erratum in
    Sci Adv. 2025 Aug 8;11(32):eaea3085. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aea3085.

β-Site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is the 
rate-limiting enzyme for amyloid-β (Aβ) generation and is considered promising 
drug target for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The co-chaperone BAG3 
(Bcl-2-associated athanogene 3) plays an important role in maintaining 
intracellular protein homeostasis by regulating heat shock protein 70 (HSP70). 
Here, we reported that BAG3 expression was significantly elevated in AD. It 
interacted with and stabilized BACE1 by delaying its degradation through 
ubiquitin-proteasome and autophagy-lysosomal pathways. BAG3E455K and BAG3R480A 
mutations reduced their interaction with BACE1. SPOT peptide arrays revealed 
that BACE1 carboxyl-terminal peptide fragments bound to the RQ domain of BAG3. 
This interaction can be disrupted by BACE1-derived peptide (Tat-BACE1480-494), 
leading to decreased BACE1 stability. In APP23/PS45 double transgenic mice, 
Tat-BACE1480-494 reduced BACE1 levels, decreased Aβ production, and improved 
synaptic and cognitive deficits. These findings indicate that BAG3 forms complex 
with HSP70 and BACE1 to stabilize BACE1, suggesting that Tat-BACE1480-494, may 
represent an ideal class of neuroprotective therapeutics against AD.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adt7981
PMCID: PMC12101485
PMID: 40408490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. PLoS One. 2025 May 23;20(5):e0322607. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322607. 
eCollection 2025.

Leveraging transformers and explainable AI for Alzheimer's disease 
interpretability.

Anzum H(1), Sammo NS(1)(2), Akhter S(1).

Author information:
(1)AISIP Lab, Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(2)Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive brain ailment that causes memory loss, 
cognitive decline, and behavioral changes. It is quite concerning that one in 
nine adults over the age of 65 have AD. Currently there is almost no cure for AD 
except very few experimental treatments. However, early detection offers chances 
to take part in clinical trials or other investigations looking at potential new 
and effective Alzheimer's treatments. To detect Alzheimer's disease, brain scans 
such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or positron 
emission tomography (PET) can be performed. Many researches have been undertaken 
to use computer vision on MRI images, and their accuracy ranges from 80-90%, new 
computer vision algorithms and cutting-edge transformers have the potential to 
improve this performance.We utilize advanced transformers and computer vision 
algorithms to enhance diagnostic accuracy, achieving an impressive 99% accuracy 
in categorizing Alzheimer's disease stages through translating RNA text data and 
brain MRI images in near-real-time. We integrate the Local Interpretable 
Model-agnostic Explanations (LIME) explainable AI (XAI) technique to ensure the 
transformers' acceptance, reliability, and human interpretability. LIME helps 
identify crucial features in RNA sequences or specific areas in MRI images 
essential for diagnosing AD.

Copyright: © 2025 Anzum et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322607
PMCID: PMC12101688
PMID: 40408321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no competing interests for biasing in 
this work.


39. Endocrine. 2025 Aug;89(2):456-465. doi: 10.1007/s12020-025-04227-6. Epub 2025
 May 23.

Association of peripheral neuropathy with dementia in type 2 diabetes: a 5-year 
follow-up study using the national health insurance service-national health 
information database.

Jin HY(1), Kim KW(2), Lee KA(1), Park TS(1), Kim MJ(3), Kim JS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, 
Jeonbuk National University Medical School, Research Institute of Clinical 
Medicine of Jeonbuk National University-Biomedical Research Institute of Jeonbuk 
National University Hospital, Jeonju, South Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Jeonbuk National University Medical School, Research 
Institute of Clinical Medicine of Jeonbuk National University-Biomedical 
Research Institute of Jeonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, South Korea.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Department of 
Medical Informatics, Jeonbuk National University Medical School, Research 
Institute of Clinical Medicine of Jeonbuk National University-Biomedical 
Research Institute of Jeonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, South Korea.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Department of 
Medical Informatics, Jeonbuk National University Medical School, Research 
Institute of Clinical Medicine of Jeonbuk National University-Biomedical 
Research Institute of Jeonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, South Korea. 
kjsjdk@jbnu.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the incidence of dementia is associated with 
diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) in type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Using the National Health Insurance Service-National Health Information 
Database, we calculated the incidence of various types of dementia according to 
type 2 diabetes with or without DPN by applying multivariate Cox regression 
analysis. Propensity score matching was performed to equalize each group by 
considering demographic characteristics and underlying conditions.
RESULTS: The incidence of various types of dementia was higher in patients with 
type 2 diabetes than in those without diabetes. The risk of developing dementia 
was higher in type 2 diabetes with DPN than in type 2 diabetes without DPN, 
irrespective of dementia type (all dementia: 1.53 vs. 2.1 vs. 1.4, P < 0.05, 
Alzheimer's disease: 1.46 vs. 1.98 vs. 1.34, P < 0.05, vascular dementia: 1.86 
vs. 2.75 vs. 1.66, P < 0.05, other dementia: 1.62 vs. 2.19 vs. 1.48, P < 0.05; 
all type 2 diabetes vs. type 2 diabetes with DPN vs. type 2 diabetes without DPN 
compared with non-diabetes). When sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors 
(SGLT2Is) were used, the incidence of all dementia types was lower in patients 
with type 2 diabetes than in patients with type 2 diabetes who did not use 
SGLT2Is although the incidence showed more decreased trend when dipeptidyl 
peptidase IV inhibitor (DPPIVI) was combined (all dementia: 0.51-0.71, P < 0.05, 
Alzheimer's disease: 0.78-0.80, P < 0.05, vascular dementia: 0.28-0.35, 
P < 0.05, other dementia: 0.2-0.70, P < 0.05; SGLT2Is user vs. neither SGLT2I 
nor DPPIVI). This pattern was also observed in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
DPN (all dementia: 0.32-0.56, P < 0.05, Alzheimer's disease: 0.44-0.55, 
P < 0.05, vascular dementia: 0.33, P < 0.05, other dementia: 0.53, P < 0.05; 
SGLT2Is user vs. neither SGLT2I nor DPPIVI).
CONCLUSIONS: More active diagnostic and prevention efforts are needed to address 
the risk of developing all forms of dementia, including vascular dementia, in 
patients with diabetes and DPN.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-025-04227-6
PMID: 40408036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


40. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 23. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05058-2. Online ahead of 
print.

The Intricate Relationship of Trk Receptors in Brain Diseases and Disorders.

Dahiya S(1), Sharma P(2)(3), Sharma B(4), Saroj P(1), Kharkwal H(5), Sharma 
N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University 
Uttar Pradesh, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University 
Uttar Pradesh, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. psharmabrain@gmail.com.
(3)Lloyd Institute of Management and Technology, Plot No.-11, Knowledge Park-II, 
Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201306, India. psharmabrain@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences, Gurugram 
University (A State Govt. University), Gurugram, Haryana, 122003, India. 
drbhupesh@gurugramuniversity.ac.in.
(5)Amity Natural and Herbal Product Research, Amity Institute of Phytochemistry 
and Phytomedicine, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(6)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.

The tropomyosin-related tyrosine kinases or neurotrophic tyrosine kinase 
receptors are a group of tyrosine kinases that play a crucial role in regulating 
neuronal growth and development. Neurotrophins are a class of protein-secreting 
cells that serve as the primary ligand for the Trk receptors. The four primary 
neurotrophins are nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived nerve factor (BDNF), 
neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin-4/5. Mounting evidence suggests that Trk 
receptors can be categorized into three types: TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC. These 
receptors play a crucial role in facilitating neuronal growth and development. 
Trk receptors influence the survival and differentiation of neurons via many 
signalling cascades. Neurotrophin interaction with Trk receptors triggers a 
signalling cascade involving PLC, PI3K/Akt, and Ras/MAPK signalling pathways. 
Emerging evidence suggests that diminished neurotrophic support, changes in Trk 
receptor expression, or disruptions in signalling cascades play a crucial role 
in the development of various neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD), and many more. This review specifically explores 
therapeutic approaches targeting Trk receptors, their ligands, and Trk signaling 
in the context of various brain disorders. We focus on the potential for 
modulating or inhibiting Trk receptors as a treatment strategy for brain 
diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05058-2
PMID: 40408027

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Clinical Trial Number: Not applicable.


41. Neurol Sci. 2025 Sep;46(9):4321-4326. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08250-3. Epub
2025  May 23.

Beyond memory: leveraging CSF biomarkers in all MCI patients ahead of 
anti-amyloid therapies.

Poli M(1), Bonomi CG(1), Tretola L(1), Rosa M(1), Di Donna MG(1), Moreschini 
A(1), Nuccetelli M(2), Bernardini S(2), Mercuri NB(3), Martorana A(4), Motta 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Memory Clinic and Neurodegenerative Dementia Research Unit, University of 
Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(2)Division of Clinical Biochemistry and Clinical Molecular Biology, University 
of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(3)Neurology Unit, Policlinico Tor Vergata, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy.
(4)Memory Clinic and Neurodegenerative Dementia Research Unit, University of 
Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. martorana@med.uniroma2.it.

In the era of anti-amyloid (Aβ) monoclonal antibodies (AMABs), with the recent 
marketing authorization granted for lecanemab by European Medicines Agency 
(EMA), randomized clinical trial selection criteria typically include memory 
impairment detection. In a cohort of patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment 
(MCI), we observed a non-biunivocal relationship between Aβ pathology and memory 
deficits, with Aβ pathology present even in patients with atypical clinical 
presentations. This suggests that using MCI, regardless of the presence of 
memory impairment, as the sole general criteria along with amyloid pathology 
biomarkers, could expand the pool of eligible patients. The presence of patients 
with non-amnestic MCI and underlying Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology makes a 
timely biomarker-based diagnosis necessary, as they may be considered eligible 
for treatment with AMABs according to current prescribing guidelines, even in 
the absence of memory impairment. However, it remains unclear whether, for such 
patients, the potential efficacy of AMABs actually outweighs the risks 
associated with treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08250-3
PMCID: PMC12394294
PMID: 40407991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


42. Geroscience. 2025 May 23. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01694-7. Online ahead of 
print.

Amyloid neuropathy, tauopathy, decreased cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons, 
long-term memory and motor deficits, and sleep disturbance in motopsin deficient 
mice.

Yokoi F(1), Tanaka Y(1), Sakai A(2), Isogai N(2), Miyata S(1), Mitsui S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Gunma University Graduate School of 
Health Sciences, 3-39-22, Showa-Machi, Maebashi, Gunma, 371-8514, Japan.
(2)Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Medicine, Gunma University, 
Maebashi, Gunma, Japan.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Gunma University Graduate School of 
Health Sciences, 3-39-22, Showa-Machi, Maebashi, Gunma, 371-8514, Japan. 
smitsui@gunma-u.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Medicine, Gunma University, 
Maebashi, Gunma, Japan. smitsui@gunma-u.ac.jp.

Truncating mutation in motopsin (neurotrypsin/PRSS12) gene causes an autosomal 
recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability. Since motopsin cleaves agrin, 
motopsin deficiency causes accumulation of long form agrin. Agrin binds amyloid 
β (Aβ) and accelerates Aβ fibril formation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Down's 
syndrome (DS) exhibits AD-like neuropathological changes. Agrin also contributes 
to Parkinson's disease (PD). Degeneration of cholinergic neurons is relevant to 
AD, whereas degeneration of dopaminergic neurons causes PD and PD-associated 
cognitive impairment and dementia. Although there is a functional relationship 
between agrin and amyloidosis, it has not been clear whether motopsin deficiency 
induces amyloid neuropathy or not. Here, motopsin knock-out (KO) mice increased 
hippocampal amyloid and phosphorylated tau deposits. Agrin and amyloid oligomers 
were colocalized in the amyloid angiopathy. Motopsin KO mice also exhibited 
motor deficits. Motopsin KO male mice decreased cholinergic neurons in the 
vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca and dopaminergic neurons in the 
substantia nigra compacta and the ventral tegmental area, and showed long-term 
memory deficits for object recognition, hypoactivity, and shorter sleeping time. 
Motopsin KO female mice decreased cholinergic neurons in the medial septum and 
showed hyperactivity. The results suggest that this intellectual disability is 
produced by a complex mechanism relating to AD, DS, PD, PD-associated cognitive 
impairment, and cerebrovascular dementia. The results also suggest that motopsin 
KO mouse can be a novel animal model for these diseases. Development of 
therapeutics, that reduce amyloid and phosphorylated tau deposits and protect 
cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons, will be useful to prevent the progress of 
this disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01694-7
PMID: 40407976

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


43. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 May 23. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04290-w. Online ahead of print.

Resveratrol, a calorie restriction mimetic, protects AlCl(3)-induced 
neurotoxicity and cognitive deficits in rats via inhibition of oxidative stress.

Benade VS(1)(2), Jayarajan P(1), Krishnadas N(2), Nirogi R(3).

Author information:
(1)Suven Life Sciences, Serene Chambers, Road # 7, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, 500 
034, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, India.
(3)Suven Life Sciences, Serene Chambers, Road # 7, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, 500 
034, India. nvsrk@suven.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's diseases (AD), are becoming more 
prevalent as population ages. Recent researches indicate possible involvement of 
increased oxidative stress and free radicals in AD-related changes, suggesting 
that therapeutic efforts aimed at the removal of reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
or prevention of their formation may be beneficial in AD. Resveratrol, a 
polyphenol found in red wines, demonstrated antioxidant and anti-aging effects 
in various in vitro and in vivo studies. In the current work, resveratrol was 
evaluated in animal model of cognitive impairment and/or neurodegeneration as a 
potential treatment approach for AD. Rats were treated with aluminum chloride 
(AlCl3) for 20 days for induction of oxidative stress and simultaneously with 
resveratrol (15 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.). Animals were subjected for assessment of 
working memory, modulations in biomarkers related to oxidative stress, cognition 
and sirtuin-1 levels. Impaired cognitive abilities and increased oxidative 
stress were observed in rats treated with AlCl3 alone; however, resveratrol 
significantly improved cognitive performance, decreased oxidative stress and 
increased levels of antioxidant enzymes along with biomarkers related to 
cognition and anti-aging. Results from current studies indicate that due to its 
anti-aging and antioxidant properties, resveratrol may have a potential in 
pharmacotherapy of neurodegenerative disorder such as AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-04290-w
PMID: 40407867

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: All procedures were performed 
following the Institutional Animal Ethics Committee of Suven Life Sciences 
constituted as per the directions of the Committee for the Purpose of Control 
and Supervision of Experiments on Animals (CPCSEA), India.


44. Inflammation. 2025 May 23. doi: 10.1007/s10753-025-02252-1. Online ahead of 
print.

High level expression of OSBPL11 is associated with atherosclerosis and 
Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang H(#)(1), Chen Y(#)(1), Xu Q(1), Wu X(1), He N(1), Ren Z(1), Wang G(2)(3), 
Tang Z(1), Xiang Q(1), Liu L(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Laboratory for Arteriosclerology of 
Hunan Province, Hunan International Scientific and Technological Cooperation 
Base of Arteriosclerotic Disease, Hengyang Medical College, University of South 
China, Hengyang, 421001, Hunan Province, China.
(2)JinFeng Laboratory, Chongqing, 401329, China.
(3)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biorheological Science and 
Technology, Lab for Vascular Implants, College of Bioengineering, National Local 
Joint Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400044, China.
(4)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Laboratory for Arteriosclerology of 
Hunan Province, Hunan International Scientific and Technological Cooperation 
Base of Arteriosclerotic Disease, Hengyang Medical College, University of South 
China, Hengyang, 421001, Hunan Province, China. liuls2000@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

With the global aging population, the incidence of aging-related diseases such 
as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and atherosclerosis (AS) is increasing. AS has also 
been identified as a key risk factor for AD. However, the conjoint molecular 
mechanisms driving these diseases remain unclear. This study first used 
bioinformatics analysis to analyze gene expression data in the cortex of AD 
patients and plaques of AS patients. We identified OSBPL11 as a gene whose 
expression co-increased under both conditions, and it is expressed in 
macrophages in AS patients and astrocytes in AD patients. Further validation was 
conducted through patient sample collection and an ApoE-/- mouse model. 
Strikingly, our findings suggest that OSBPL11 plays a role in the development of 
both AS and AD, and that there is increased co-localization of OSBPL11 with 
macrophages and astrocytes. This discovery offers new insights into the 
association between AS and AD and offers a new target for the treatment AS and 
AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-025-02252-1
PMID: 40407857

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Autopsy samples 
and animal studies were performed in compliance with the ARRIVE guidelines. All 
experimental procedures strictly adhered to the regulations set forth by the 
Ethics Committee of the University of South China. The approval number for 
autopsy samples and animal studies are 2024–0090 and USC2023XS098, respectively. 
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


45. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70237. doi: 10.1002/alz.70237.

Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project release 4 whole genome sequencing 
dataset.

Leung YY(1)(2), Lee WP(1)(2), Kuzma AB(1)(2), Nicaretta H(1)(2), Valladares 
O(1)(2), Gangadharan P(1)(2), Qu L(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Ren Y(1)(2), Cheng 
PL(1)(2), Kuksa PP(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2), White H(1)(2), Katanic Z(1)(2), Bass 
L(1)(2), Saravanan N(1)(2), Greenfest-Allen E(1)(2), Kirsch M(1)(2), Cantwell 
L(1)(2), Iqbal T(1)(3), Wheeler NR(4)(5), Farrell JJ(6), Zhu C(6)(7), Turner 
SL(8)(9), Gunasekaran TI(10)(11), Mena PR(12), Jin Y(1)(2), Carter L(1)(2); 
Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project; Zhang X(6)(7), Vardarajan BN(10)(11), 
Toga A(13), Cuccaro M(12), Hohman TJ(8)(9), Bush WS(4)(5), Naj AC(1)(3), Martin 
E(12), Dalgard CL(14), Kunkle BW(12), Farrer LA(6)(7)(15)(16)(17), Mayeux 
RP(10)(11), Haines JL(4)(5), Pericak-Vance MA(12), Schellenberg GD(1), Wang 
LS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, School of Medicine, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(6)Departments of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.
(9)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(10)Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(11)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Taub Institute for Research on the Aging 
Brain, Departments of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Epidemiology, College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(12)Department of Human Genetics and John P. Hussman Institute for Human 
Genomics, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.
(13)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, USC Stevens Neuroimaging and Informatics 
Institute, Keck School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, California, USA.
(14)Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Genetics, School of Medicine, 
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(16)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Dec 06:2024.12.03.24317000. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.03.24317000.

INTRODUCTION: The Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project (ADSP) is a national 
initiative to understand the genetic architecture of Alzheimer's disease and 
related dementias (ADRD) by integrating whole genome sequencing (WGS) with other 
genetic, phenotypic, and harmonized datasets from diverse populations.
METHODS: The Genome Center for Alzheimer's Disease (GCAD) uniformly processed 
WGS from 36,361 ADSP samples, including 35,014 genetically unique participants 
of which 45% are from non-European ancestry, across 17 cohorts in 14 countries 
in this fourth release (R4).
RESULTS: This sequencing effort identified 387 million bi-allelic variants, 42 
million short insertions/deletions, and 6.8 million structural variants. 
Annotations and quality control data are available for all variants and samples. 
Additionally, detailed phenotypes from 15,927 participants across 10 domains are 
also provided. A linkage disequilibrium panel was created using unrelated AD 
cases and controls.
DISCUSSION: Researchers can access and analyze the genetic data via the National 
Institute on Aging Genetics of Alzheimer's Disease Data Storage Site (NIAGADS) 
Data Sharing Service, the VariXam, or NIAGADS GenomicsDB.
HIGHLIGHTS: We detailed the genetic architecture and quality of the Alzheimer's 
Disease Sequencing Project release 4 whole genome sequences. We identified 435 
million single nucleotide polymorphisms, insertions and deletions, and 
structural variants from diverse genomes. We harmonized extensive phenotypes, 
linkage disequilibrium reference panel on subset of samples. Data is publicly 
available at NIAGADS Data Storage Site, variants and annotations are browsable 
on two different websites.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70237
PMCID: PMC12100500
PMID: 40407102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.S. receives payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers’ bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events by 
BrightFocus and USC. T.J.H. serves on the scientific advisory board for Vivid 
Genomics, and as deputy editor for Alzheimer's & Dementia: TRCI. Other authors 
have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


46. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70268. doi: 10.1002/alz.70268.

Dementia care in a rapidly aging society.

Eggleston K(1), Kim D(2).

Author information:
(1)Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center, FSI, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Health Care Policy Research, Korea Institute for Health and 
Social Affairs (KIHASA), Sejong City, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: As one of the most rapidly aging societies globally, Korea's 
efforts to mitigate the social burden of Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementias (ADRD) may provide valuable insights.
METHODS: We conducted a mixed-methods review of studies and policies related to 
dementia care in Korea over the past 25 years, including quantitative analysis 
of administrative and comparative data.
RESULTS: Estimates suggest a high social burden from ADRD, with annual costs 
increasing from 0.9% to 3.8% of gross domestic product between 2019 and 2050. 
Pilot programs for integrated community care and hospice palliative care reveal 
the advantages of innovating from a foundation of national health insurance and 
long-term care insurance, as well as the continuing challenges of appropriately 
designing programs and incentives for early detection, integrated care, and 
late-life palliative care.
DISCUSSION: A rigorous analysis of programs addressing uneven quality and a 
study of the impact of integrated care models for home- and community-based 
services would be valuable.
HIGHLIGHTS: A mixed-method review highlights the challenges of rapid aging in 
Korea. Universal health and long-term care systems support innovation for 
dementia care. Dementia costs are projected to increase from 0.9% to 3.8% of 
gross domestic product in 2019-2050. Pilots of integrated community care and 
hospice palliative care show promise. Rigorous analysis of programs to address 
uneven quality would be valuable.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70268
PMCID: PMC12100498
PMID: 40407100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information


47. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 May;31(5):e70378. doi: 10.1111/cns.70378.

Mitochondria-Associated Membranes: A Key Point of Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Rao X(1)(2), Wang J(2)(3), Liu H(2)(3), Wang Q(2)(3), Wang 
X(2)(4), Hua F(1)(2), Guan X(5), Lin Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi Medical 
College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.
(2)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Nanchang, Jiangxi 
Province, China.
(3)Queen Mary College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi Medical 
College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Yingtan City People's Hospital, Yingtan City, 
Jiangxi Province, China.

BACKGROUND: Neurodegenerative diseases pose significant health challenges in the 
21st century, with increasing morbidity and mortality, particularly among the 
elderly population. One of the key factors contributing to the pathogenesis of 
these diseases is the disrupted crosstalk between mitochondria and the 
endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs), which are 
regions where the ER interfaces with mitochondria, serve as crucial platforms 
facilitating communication between these organelles.
OBJECTIVES: This review focuses on the structural composition and functions of 
MAMs and highlights their roles. Additionally, in this review, we summarize the 
relationship between MAM dysfunction and various neurodegenerative diseases, 
including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and others. The involvement 
of key proteins such as Sig-1R, IP3R, and VAPB in maintaining ER-mitochondrial 
communication and their dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases is emphasized.
CONCLUSION: Through analyzing the effects of MAM on neurodegenerative diseases, 
we provide the newest insights and potential therapeutic targets for the 
treatment of these debilitating conditions.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70378
PMCID: PMC12099310
PMID: 40406921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


48. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 May 21;9:25424823251342486. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251342486. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

The association of dietary protein intake in three meals and cognitive 
performance among people over sixty years old.

Niu F(1)(2), Ma Y(1)(2), Yuan X(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2), Li S(1)(2), Han T(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Precision Nutrition and Health, Ministry of Education, 
Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, the 
National Key Discipline, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, China.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive dysfunction caused by aging is becoming increasingly 
significant, and despite increasing global attention to the prevention and 
treatment of cognitive impairment, effective treatment methods remain elusive, 
so changing lifestyle and dietary interventions are particularly important.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of dietary protein 
intake on cognitive ability in the people aged over 60 years, and to provide new 
insights for the prevention and improvement of cognitive dysfunction in the 
elderly.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-cutting study of 2649 older adults in the National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey database between 2011 and 2014, 
employing weighted logistic regression analysis to investigate the relationship 
between protein intake at three meals and cognitive capacity.
RESULTS: In the fully adjusted model, compared to those in the lowest quantile, 
participants in the highest quintile of dinner protein intake had a lower risk 
of low cognitive performance (OR = 0.66, 95% CI 0.44-0.98 for Consortium to 
Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease; OR = 0.64, 95% CI 0.39-0.95 for 
Digit Symbol Substitution Test; OR = 0.56, 95% CI 0.36-0.88 for Composite 
z-score).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that cognitive performance may be related to 
dinner protein intake but not breakfast protein intake.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251342486
PMCID: PMC12095951
PMID: 40406676

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article. All the data comes from National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey 
(https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/?CDC_AAref_Val = https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/index.htm).


49. Front Neurosci. 2025 May 8;19:1515255. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1515255. 
eCollection 2025.

Significance of gene therapy in neurodegenerative diseases.

Wang L(#)(1), Ma L(#)(2), Gao Z(3), Wang Y(1), Qiu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Yantai Shan Hospital, Yantai, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, China.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Affiliated 
Hospital of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Gene therapy is an approach that employs vectors to deliver genetic material to 
target cells, aiming to correct genes with pathogenic mutations and modulate one 
or more genes responsible for disease progression. It holds significant value 
for clinical applications and offers broad market potential due to the large 
patient population affected by various conditions. For instance, in 2023, the 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 55 new drugs, including five 
specifically for gene therapy targeting hematologic and rare diseases. Recently, 
with advancements in understanding the pathogenesis and development of 
neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), gene therapy has emerged as a promising 
avenue for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), 
Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and spinal 
muscular atrophy (SMA), particularly in personalized medicine. Notably, the FDA 
has approved three clinical applications for combating SMA, utilizing viral 
vectors delivered via intravenous and intrathecal injections. However, gene 
therapy for other NDDs remains in clinical trials, necessitating improvements in 
viral vectors, exploration of new vectors, optimization of delivery routes, and 
further investigation into pathogenesis to identify novel targets. This review 
discusses recent advancements in gene therapy for NDDs, offering insights into 
developing new therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Ma, Gao, Wang and Qiu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1515255
PMCID: PMC12095248
PMID: 40406043

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


50. Neurophotonics. 2025 Jan;12(Suppl 1):S14610. doi: 10.1117/1.NPh.12.S1.S14610.
 Epub 2025 May 21.

Characterizing vascular function in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease, 
atherosclerosis, and mixed Alzheimer's and atherosclerosis.

Eyre B(1)(2)(3)(4), Shaw K(1)(2)(3), Drew D(1)(2)(3), Rayson A(3)(5), Shabir 
O(1)(2)(3)(5), Lee L(1)(2)(3), Francis S(1)(2)(3)(5), Berwick J(1)(2)(3), 
Howarth C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Department of Psychology, Sheffield Neurovascular 
Group, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)University of Sheffield, Neuroscience Institute, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(3)University of Sheffield, Healthy Lifespan Institute, Sheffield, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Department of 
Neurology, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(5)University of Sheffield, School of Medicine and Population Health, Sheffield, 
United Kingdom.

SIGNIFICANCE: Alzheimer's disease does not occur in isolation, and there are 
many comorbidities associated with the disease, especially diseases of the 
vasculature. Atherosclerosis is a known risk factor for the subsequent 
development of Alzheimer's disease; therefore, understanding how both diseases 
interact will provide a greater understanding of co-morbid disease progression 
and aid the development of potential new treatments.
AIM: We characterize hemodynamic responses and cognitive performance in APP/PS1 
Alzheimer's mice, atherosclerosis mice, and a mixed disease group (APP/PS1 and 
atherosclerosis) between the ages of 9 and 12 months.
APPROACH: Whisker-evoked hemodynamic responses and recognition memory were 
assessed in awake mice, immunohistochemistry to assess amyloid pathology, and 
histology to characterize atherosclerotic plaque load.
RESULTS: We observed hemodynamic deficits in atherosclerosis mice (versus 
Alzheimer's, mixed disease, or wild-type mice), with reduced short-duration 
stimulus-evoked hemodynamic responses occurring when there was no concurrent 
locomotion during the stimulation period. Mixed Alzheimer's and atherosclerosis 
models did not show differences in amyloid beta coverage in the cortex or 
hippocampus or atherosclerotic plaque burden in the aortic arch vs relevant 
Alzheimer's or atherosclerosis controls. Consistent with the subtle vascular 
deficits and no pathology differences, we also observed no difference in 
performance on the object recognition task across groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasize the importance of experimental design for 
characterizing vascular function across disease groups, as locomotion and 
stimulus duration impacted the ability to detect differences between groups. 
Although atherosclerosis did reduce hemodynamic responses, these were recovered 
in the presence of co-occurring Alzheimer's disease, which may provide targets 
for future studies to explore the potentially contrasting vasodilatory 
mechanisms these diseases impact.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1117/1.NPh.12.S1.S14610
PMCID: PMC12094910
PMID: 40405889


51. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2025 Aug;79(8):466-472. doi: 10.1111/pcn.13841.
Epub  2025 May 23.

Sodium benzoate, a D-amino acid oxidase inhibitor, improved short-term memory in 
patients with mild cognitive impairment in a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Lin CH(1)(2)(3), Wang SH(4), Lane HY(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung 
University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(2)School of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences, China Medical University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(4)National Center for Geriatrics and Welfare Research, National Health Research 
Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Psychiatry & Brain Disease Research Center, China Medical 
University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Psychology, College of Medical and Health Sciences, Asia 
University, Taichung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have found that sodium benzoate (the pivotal 
D-amino acid oxidase [DAO] inhibitor) improved cognitive function in patients 
with mild Alzheimer disease; however, its efficacy for mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) (especially its core feature, impaired short-term memory) remains 
uncertain. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
sodium benzoate in treating amnestic MCI (aMCI).
METHODS: This study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical 
trial conducted in a major medical center in Taiwan. Eighty-two patients with 
aMCI were recruited for 24-week treatment of 250 to 1500 mg/day of sodium 
benzoate or placebo. Overall, cognitive function was measured by Alzheimer's 
Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-cog), and short-term memory 
was evaluated by the 'recall of test instructions' item in the ADAS-cog. The 
generalized estimating equation was applied to compare the two groups in 
efficacy.
RESULTS: Compared with placebo, sodium benzoate therapy, displayed a trend, 
albeit statistically insignificant, in improving overall cognitive function 
(P = 0.082), and significantly improved short-term memory (P = 0.044). Both 
benzoate and placebo were well tolerated and benzoate therapy produced no 
additional side effect.
CONCLUSIONS: With the moderate sample size of the current study, treatment using 
sodium benzoate, a DAO inhibitor, showed promise in improving cognition, 
especially short-term memory, in patients with aMCI. Of note, while the ADAS-cog 
total score has been regarded as insensitive in measuring aMCI, its 'recall of 
test instructions' item may be a more sensitive and clinically feasible tool. 
Further larger studies are warranted to confirm the preliminary finding.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier. NCT04736355.

© 2025 The Author(s). Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2025 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.13841
PMID: 40405827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Mater Chem B. 2025 Jun 11;13(23):6664-6678. doi: 10.1039/d5tb00153f.

Biomolecular interactions of carbon nanotubes with amyloid-β proteins.

Cai J(1)(2), Li B(3), Feng G(3), Zhang J(4), Fan H(1)(2), Zheng B(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Disaster and Emergency Medicine, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
China. haojunfan86@163.com.
(2)Wenzhou Safety (Emergency) Institute, Tianjin University, Wenzhou, China.
(3)Academy of Medical Engineering and Translational Medicine, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China. binzheng@tju.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Ministry of Education, Department of 
Physiology, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.

Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have attracted considerable attention due to their 
prominent advantages of adsorption, tensile strength, electronic conductivity, 
and surface functionalization using proteins or functional groups. Recent 
studies suggested that carbon quantum dots, graphene, and hybrid materials doped 
with CNTs can effectively inhibit the fibrillization of amyloid-β proteins (Aβ), 
which represents a significant signal of early Alzheimer's disease (AD). The 
investigations on the CNT-Aβ interaction can elucidate the reaction mechanism 
and reveal the basic reaction phenomena of CNTs in AD patients. This review 
systematically introduces the basic characteristics and biosafety of CNTs, the 
physicochemical properties of Aβ, and the CNT-Aβ interaction mechanism. We 
mainly summarize the mechanisms of different functional group modifications on 
the surface of CNTs for Aβ interactions, and even the interactions between 
different-diameter CNTs and Aβ. In addition, we also introduce the "protein 
crown" formed on the CNT surface, leading to the various CNT-Aβ interactions. 
Our work provides a theoretical basis for the biomedical application of CNTs and 
its applications in AD therapy/treatment.

DOI: 10.1039/d5tb00153f
PMID: 40405793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Proc Nutr Soc. 2025 May 23:1-11. doi: 10.1017/S0029665125100050. Online ahead
of  print.

Healthy dietary patterns, cognition and dementia risk: current evidence and 
context.

Shannon OM(1), Mathers JC(1), Stevenson E(1)(2), Siervo M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Nutrition & Exercise Research Centre, Centre for Healthier Lives, 
Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.
(2)School of Biomedical, Nutritional and Sport Sciences, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)School of Population Health, Curtin University, Perth, WA, Australia.
(4)Curtin Dementia Centre of Excellence, Enable Institute, Curtin University, 
Perth, WA, Australia.

Approximately 60 million individuals worldwide are currently living with 
dementia. As the median age of the world's population rises, the number of 
dementia cases is expected to increase markedly, and to affect ∼150 million 
individuals by 2050. This will create a huge and unsustainable economic and 
social burden across the globe. Although promising pharmacological treatment 
options for Alzheimer's disease - the most common cause of dementia - are 
starting to emerge, dementia prevention and risk reduction remain vital. In this 
review, we present evidence from large-scale epidemiological studies and 
randomised controlled trials to indicate that adherence to healthy dietary 
patterns could improve cognitive function and lower dementia risk. We outline 
potential systemic (e.g. improved cardiometabolic health, lower inflammation, 
modified gut microbiome composition/metabolism, slower pace of aging) and 
brain-specific (e.g. lower amyloid-β load, reduced brain atrophy and preserved 
cerebral microstructure and energetics) mechanisms of action. We also explore 
current gaps in our knowledge and outline potential directions for future 
research in this area. Our aim is to provide an update on current state of the 
knowledge, and to galvanise research on this important topic.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665125100050
PMID: 40405394


54. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2025 May 22;16(1):255. doi: 10.1186/s13287-025-04334-1.

Stem cell therapy: a revolutionary cure or a pandora's box.

Marei HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cytology and Histology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, 35116, Egypt. hanymarei@mans.edu.eg.

This review article examines how stem cell therapies can cure various diseases 
and injuries while also discussing the difficulties and moral conundrums that 
come with their application. The article focuses on the revolutionary 
developments in stem cell research, especially the introduction of gene editing 
tools like CRISPR-Cas9, which can potentially improve the safety and 
effectiveness of stem cell-based treatments. To guarantee the responsible use of 
stem cells in clinical applications, it is also argued that standardizing 
clinical procedures and fortifying ethical and regulatory frameworks are 
essential first steps. The assessment also highlights the substantial obstacles 
that still need to be addressed, such as the moral dilemmas raised by the use of 
embryonic stem cells, the dangers of unlicensed stem cell clinics, and the 
difficulties in obtaining and paying for care for patients. The study emphasizes 
how critical it is to address these problems to stop exploitation, guarantee 
patient safety, and increase the accessibility of stem cell therapy. The review 
also addresses the significance of thorough clinical trials, public education, 
and policy development to guarantee that stem cell research may fulfill its full 
potential. The review concludes by describing stem cell research as a promising 
but complicated topic that necessitates a thorough evaluation of both the 
hazards and the benefits. To overcome the ethical, legal, and accessibility 
obstacles and eventually guarantee that stem cell treatments may be safely and 
fairly included in conventional healthcare, it urges cooperation between the 
scientific community, legislators, and the general public.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-025-04334-1
PMCID: PMC12096755
PMID: 40405306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare that the 
review was conducted without any commercial or financial relationships that 
could create a conflict of interest.


55. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 22;17(1):114. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01759-x.

Novel fully human high-affinity anti-TREM2 antibody shows efficacy in clinically 
relevant Alzheimer´s mouse model.

Kraller M(1), Faßbender J(2), Jabali A(1), Kroeger J(1), Fink B(1), Popper B(2), 
Ungerer M(3), Christlmeier MA(4).

Author information:
(1)ISAR Bioscience GmbH, 82152, Planegg, Germany.
(2)Biomedical Center, Medical Faculty, Core Facility Animal Models, LMU Munich, 
82151, Planegg-Martinsried, Germany.
(3)ISAR Bioscience GmbH, 82152, Planegg, Germany. 
Martin.Ungerer@isarbioscience.de.
(4)ISAR Bioscience GmbH, 82152, Planegg, Germany. 
Miriam.Christlmeier@isarbioscience.de.

BACKGROUND: New drugs to treat Alzheimer´s disease (AD) are urgently needed. 
Human triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (hTREM2) is a validated 
drug target which is genetically associated with AD. Existing anti-hTREM2 
antibodies were raised in animal immune systems, and subsequently humanized, 
which may incur immunological complications upon repeated preventive or 
therapeutic applications in vivo in AD patients. In addition, anti-hTREM2 
antibodies should be optimized for both, efficacy and safety.
METHODS: A novel fully human monoclonal brain-targeting anti-hTREM2 antibody 
M07-TFN was created. Binding affinities, cell viabilities, and agonist potencies 
were investigated on rhTREM2 and in human microglia. Transcytosis assays modeled 
blood-brain barrier translocation (BBB). Behavior tests were carried out in 
5 × familiar AD (5xFAD) mice of both genders, to test for brain function and 
cognition as well as hippocampus-dependent spatial memory using the Barnes maze. 
In addition, amyloid plaque formation was determined on brain sections at the 
end of the study.
RESULTS: M07-TFN showed higher binding affinities and stronger activation of 
hTREM2 signaling than all previously described anti-hTREM2 antibodies. p-Syk 
activation was increased 30-fold in hTREM2-overexpressing HEK293 cells and 
fourfold in human microglia cells compared to baseline. Human microglia 
viability significantly improved after stress testing. M07-TFN showed strong BBB 
translocation in a human BBB model, and exerted cross-reactivity to the mouse 
TREM2 stalk region, which allowed us to investigate M07-TFN directly in an 
AD mouse model. In 5xFAD mice, M07-TFN resulted in improved novel object 
location and better spatial orientation and memory, and significantly reduced 
plaque load. Additional safety investigations in mice showed no negative effects 
on blood cells or major organs.
CONCLUSION: Compared to existing humanized anti-hTREM2 antibodies that have been 
investigated in clinical trials, M07-TFN showed best-in-class affinities and 
agonist potencies. Being a fully human anti-hTREM2 antibody, M07-TFN holds the 
promise of reduced immunogenicity for use in human patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01759-x
PMCID: PMC12096560
PMID: 40405265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments were permitted by the local Ethics board in 
accordance with European and German animal welfare legislations (5.1–231 
5682/LMU/BMC/CAM). The most recent version of the Animal Research: Reporting In 
Vivo Experiments (ARRIVE) guidelines was strictly followed. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: Several authors are employees 
of the biotech company ISAR Bioscience which is, however, owned (100%) by a 
non-profit foundation.


56. Eur J Med Res. 2025 May 22;30(1):408. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02642-z.

Identification of shared mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease and 
atherosclerosis by integrated bioinformatics analysis.

Wang J(1)(2), Yao J(3), Wang Z(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disease, Xuanwu Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Cerebrovascular Disease Department, Neurological Disease Center, Beijing 
Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. 
jingyao9420@163.com.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China. wangz@xwhosp.org.
(5)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disease, Xuanwu Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. wangz@xwhosp.org.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and atherosclerosis (AS) are two interacting diseases 
mostly affecting aged adults. AD is characterized by the deposition of neuritic 
plaques mainly consisting of Aβ, and AS is defined by the formation of 
atheromatous plaque along the vascular wall. The shared mechanisms underlying 
the pathogenesis of AD and AS remain unclear. Here we applied several 
bioinformatic analyses of bulk sequencing data sets of AD brain tissues and 
atherosclerotic plaques to seek relevant genes between AD and AS. WIPF3, was 
identified as the most affected gene in both diseases using weighted gene 
co-expression network analysis, machine-learning-based Lasso Cox regression 
analysis and random forest analysis. Furthermore, immune cell infiltration 
analysis of AS data sets and cell portion of single-cell RNA sequencing data 
from AD patients revealed an essential role of inflammation in the co-occurrence 
of AD and AS. Taken together, WIPF3 deficiency and inflammation may 
simultaneously mediate both AD and AS and could be potential targets for the 
prevention and therapy of these two closely related diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02642-z
PMCID: PMC12096694
PMID: 40405226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All authors gave their 
consent for publication. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


57. Nature. 2025 Jun;642(8067):E12. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-09081-0.

Author Correction: A human brain map of mitochondrial respiratory capacity and 
diversity.

Mosharov EV(1)(2), Rosenberg AM(#)(1), Monzel AS(#)(1), Osto CA(3), Stiles L(3), 
Rosoklija GB(2)(4), Dwork AJ(2)(4)(5), Bindra S(1), Junker A(1), Zhang Y(6), 
Fujita M(6), Mariani MB(2)(4), Bakalian M(2)(4), Sulzer D(1)(2)(7), De Jager 
PL(6), Menon V(6), Shirihai OS(3), Mann JJ(2)(4), Underwood MD(2)(4), Boldrini 
M(2)(4), Thiebaut de Schotten M(8)(9), Picard M(10)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Divisions of Molecular Therapeutics and Behavioral 
Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Endocrinology, and Department of Molecular and 
Medical Pharmacology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Molecular Imaging and Neuropathology, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(6)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Neuroimmunology 
Division, Department of Neurology and the Taub Institute for Research on 
Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Departments of Neurology and Pharmacology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Brain Connectivity and Behaviour Laboratory, Paris, France. 
michel.thiebaut@gmail.com.
(9)Groupe d'Imagerie Neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives-UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. 
michel.thiebaut@gmail.com.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Divisions of Molecular Therapeutics and Behavioral 
Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. 
martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(11)New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY, USA. 
martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(12)Department of Neurology, H. Houston Merritt Center, Columbia Translational 
Neuroscience Initiative, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA. martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(13)Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, Columbia University Mailman School 
of Public Health, New York, NY, USA. martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum for
    Nature. 2025 May;641(8063):749-758. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-08740-6.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-025-09081-0
PMID: 40404942


58. Sci Rep. 2025 May 22;15(1):17742. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-02412-1.

Aducanumab delivery via focused ultrasound-induced transient blood-brain barrier 
opening in vivo.

Jeong J(1)(2), Han M(2), Jeon S(2), Kim Y(3), Choi HJ(2), Choi W(2), Kwon K(2), 
Choi JR(4), Lee EH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(2)Medical Device Development Center, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation 
Foundation (K- MEDIhub), Daegu, South Korea.
(3)Preclinical Research Center, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation Foundation 
(K-MEDIhub), Daegu, South Korea.
(4)Medical Device Development Center, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation 
Foundation (K- MEDIhub), Daegu, South Korea. jongryul32@kmedihub.re.kr.
(5)Medical Device Development Center, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation 
Foundation (K- MEDIhub), Daegu, South Korea. ehlee@kmedihub.re.kr.

Focused ultrasound (FUS) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) guidance (MRgFUS) 
has emerged as a promising technique for enhancing drug delivery to the brain. 
Through the controlled oscillation of gas-encased microbubbles, FUS temporarily 
modulates the integrity of tight junctions, inducing localized blood-brain 
barrier disruption (BBBD) and allowing targeted drug passage. Aducanumab (ADU) 
has demonstrated efficacy in reducing amyloid pathology, yet its clinical 
application remains limited by the restrictive nature of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). This in vivo study aimed to evaluate the efficiency of ADU delivery 
facilitated by FUS-induced BBBD in the normal Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) 
mouse brain under two pressure conditions: 0.25 and 0.42 MPa. Following FUS 
sonication with MRI guidance, ADU concentrations in brain tissues and serum were 
measured via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) at multiple time points. 
Histological analysis at 24 h post-FUS-BBBD was performed to assess ADU 
distribution, and tissue integrity was evaluated through hematoxylin and eosin 
(H&E) and Nissl staining to detect potential damage in the target regions. The 
results demonstrated that MRgFUS significantly increased ADU concentrations 
within the target areas without inducing substantial tissue damage. ADU delivery 
efficiency was directly correlated with the degree of BBBD, exhibiting a 7-fold 
increase at 0.25 MPa and a 60-fold increase at 0.42 MPa compared to sham 
controls, with distinct kinetic profiles observed for each condition. These 
findings highlight the potential of FUS-BBBD as a therapeutic strategy to 
enhance ADU delivery to the brain, reduce required infusion doses, and mitigate 
side effects associated with high-dose administration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-02412-1
PMCID: PMC12098756
PMID: 40404732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: All experiments were approved 
by the Animal Experiment Ethics Committee of Daegu–Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation 
Foundation (IACUC approval number: KMEDI-22012601-00) and all procedures were 
conducted in accordance with the guideline. Also, the study was carried out in 
compliance with the ARRIVE (Animal research: reporting of in vivo experiments) 
guidelines ( https://arriveguidelines.org/ ) and all efforts were made to 
minimize a number of preclinical animals and their pain. Detailed steps of 
anesthesia to minimize their pain are described in a section of Materials and 
Methods.


59. Sci Rep. 2025 May 22;15(1):17730. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-01271-0.

Identifying RAGE inhibitors as potential therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease 
via integrated in-silico approaches.

Bhogal I(1), Pankaj V(1), Roy S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and 
Communication, Brno University of Technology, Brno, 616 00, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and 
Communication, Brno University of Technology, Brno, 616 00, Czech Republic. 
roy@vut.cz.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by two 
hallmarks: amyloid beta plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The receptor for 
advanced glycation end products (RAGE) is a multi-ligand receptor involved in 
the pathophysiology of various diseases including cancer, diabetes, 
cardiovascular diseases, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, targeting RAGE 
could be an effective strategy to block RAGE signaling pathways. The present 
study aims to identify potential RAGE inhibitors against AD through 
comprehensive in-silico approaches. A total of 708,580 compounds were screened 
from numerous databases using structure-based virtual screening and ADMET 
evaluation. Further, the molecules with good glide scores were assessed by 
molecular docking studies. Subsequently, the top six ligands were subjected to 
molecular dynamic (MD) simulations for 100 ns and binding free energy 
calculations to check their stability with RAGE (PDB: 6XQ3). The per-residue 
decomposition analysis revealed that specific residues namely, GLY_20, ALA_21, 
LYS_39, GLU_50, LYS_52, ARG_98, GLN_100, LYS_110, ASN_112, and ARG_198 played a 
key role in the binding process. Furthermore, the trajectory analysis (DCCM and 
PCA) analyzed the dominant motions of residues and predicted the stability of 
protein-ligand complexes. In conclusion, the Hit-6 compound could be a promising 
candidate for targeting RAGE and deserves further consideration as an 
anti-Alzheimer drug.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-01271-0
PMCID: PMC12098779
PMID: 40404684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


60. J Sci Med Sport. 2025 Sep;28(9):748-756. doi: 10.1016/j.jsams.2025.04.011.
Epub  2025 Apr 30.

Association of 24 h-movement behaviors with cerebral and hippocampal amyloid 
beta levels and executive function in cognitively normal older adults: a 
compositional data analysis from the AGUEDA trial.

Sclafani A(1), Migueles JH(2), Olvera-Rojas M(2), Solis-Urra P(3), 
Fernandez-Gamez B(2), Coca-Pulido A(2), Bellón D(2), Fernández-Ortega J(2), 
Sanchez-Martinez J(2), Sánchez-Aranda L(2), Toval Á(2), Martín-Fuentes I(2), 
Bakker EA(2), Gispert JD(4), Triviño-Ibañez EM(5), Liu-Ambrose T(6), Erickson 
KI(7), Gomez-Rio M(5), Ortega FB(8), Esteban-Cornejo I(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, Spain. 
Electronic address: sclafaniale@correo.ugr.es.
(2)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, Spain.
(3)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, Spain; 
Faculty of Education and Social Sciences, Universidad Andres Bello, Chile.
(4)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Spain; IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute), Spain; Universitat 
Pompeu Fabra, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Bioingeniería, 
Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Spain.
(5)Nuclear Medicine Services, "Virgen de Las Nieves" University Hospital, Spain; 
Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.GRANADA, Spain.
(6)Department of Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, Faculty of 
Medicine, Canada; Centre for Aging SMART, Vancouver Coastal Health Research 
Institute, Canada; Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, Vancouver Coastal 
Health Research Institute, Canada.
(7)Neuroscience Institute, AdventHealth Research Institute, USA.
(8)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, Spain; 
CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBEROBN), Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Spain; Faculty of Sport and Health Sciences, University of 
Jyväskylä, Finland.
(9)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, Spain; 
Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.GRANADA, Spain; CIBER de 
Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBEROBN), Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, Spain. Electronic address: ireneesteban@ugr.es.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the associations between movement behaviors 
(physical activity, sedentary behavior, and sleep duration), global and 
hippocampal amyloid beta levels, and executive function in cognitively normal 
older adults.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis using data from the Active Gains in brain Using 
Exercise During Aging study, including 86 participants (mean age 71.51 years, 
57% female).
METHODS: Movement behaviors were assessed using a wrist-worn accelerometer over 
a 9-day. Amyloid beta levels were quantified via positron emission tomography, 
and executive function was assessed using validated cognitive tests (e.g., Trail 
Making Test, Digit Symbol Substitution Test, Spatial Working Memory test, and 
Dimensional Change Card Sort test). Compositional data analysis and multiple 
linear regression models were used to examine associations, adjusting for age, 
sex, education, and APOEε4 genotype status.
RESULTS: No significant associations emerged between any movement behaviors and 
total cerebral amyloid beta levels or executive function (all p > 0.05). 
However, higher moderate-to-vigorous physical activity was significantly 
associated with lower hippocampal amyloid levels in males (β = -0.039, 
p = 0.010), but not in females (β = 0.004, p = 0.741) (Moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity × sex interaction p = 0.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Movement behaviors were not associated with global amyloid levels 
or executive function. However, higher moderate-to-vigorous physical activity 
may be protective against hippocampal amyloid levels in older males. Further 
research is needed to confirm these findings and explore potential sex 
differences. These results underscore the importance of moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity in brain health and suggest avenues for future research on the 
role of movement behaviors in amyloid burden.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsams.2025.04.011
PMID: 40404552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest statement The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.61. Eur Respir J. 2025 Jul 24;66(1):2402303. doi: 10.1183/13993003.02303-2024.
Print  2025 Jul.

How do people with COPD walk? A European study on digitally measured real-world 
gait.

Delgado-Ortiz L(1)(2)(3), Buekers J(1)(2)(3), Chynkiamis N(4)(5), Demeyer 
H(6)(7), Frei A(8), Gimeno-Santos E(1)(2)(3)(9), Hansen C(10), Hausdorff 
JM(11)(12)(13), Hopkinson NS(14), Jansen CP(15)(16), Kirsten A(17), Koch 
S(1)(2)(3)(18), Maetzler W(10), Megaritis D(19), Puhan MA(8), Singleton D(20), 
Vogiatzis I(19), Watz H(17), Del Din S(21)(22), Caulfield B(20), Becker 
C(15)(16), Rochester L(21)(22), Troosters T(6), Garcia-Aymerich J(23)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)ISGlobal, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona, Spain.
(3)CIBER Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Thorax Research Foundation, Athens, Greece.
(5)First Department of Respiratory Medicine, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(6)KU Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(8)Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Prevention Institute, University of Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(9)Fundació de Recerca Clínic Barcelona-Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques 
August Pi i Sunyer (FRC-IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Kiel University, Kiel, Germany.
(11)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition, and Mobility, Tel Aviv Sourasky 
Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(12)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences and 
Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(13)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center and 
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Rush Medical College, Chicago, IL, USA.
(14)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(15)Robert Bosch Gesellschaft für Medizinische Forschung, Stuttgart, Germany.
(16)Geriatric Center, Medical Faculty Heidelberg, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(17)Velocity Clinical Research Ahrensburg, formerly Pulmonary Research Institute 
at LungenClinic Grosshansdorf, Airway Research Center North (ARCN), German 
Center for Lung Research (DZL), Ahrensburg, Germany.
(18)Department of Sport, Exercise, and Health, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(19)Department of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation, Northumbria University 
Newcastle, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(20)University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(21)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(22)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), Newcastle Biomedical 
Research Centre (BRC), Newcastle University and the Newcastle Upon Tyne 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(23)ISGlobal, Barcelona, Spain judith.garcia@isglobal.org.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2025 Jul 24;66(1):2501015. doi: 10.1183/13993003.01015-2025.

BACKGROUND: The amount of walking that people with COPD do is reduced. However, 
data on their manner of walking (i.e. gait) are still lacking. We characterised 
real-world gait in COPD by assessing levels and distributions of gait 
parameters, and comparing them across COPD severity and with healthy peers.
METHODS: 549 people with COPD from seven European sites and 19 healthy older 
adults wore single wearable devices (either Axivity AX6 or DynaPort MoveMonitor 
MM+) continuously for 1 week, from which we identified walking bouts, calculated 
15 digital mobility outcomes (DMOs) aggregated at the weekly level, and compared 
them across COPD severity levels and with healthy peers.
RESULTS: Of the participants with COPD, 37% were female with a mean±sd age of 
68±8 years and a post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s of 54±20% 
predicted. All gait DMOs were normally distributed and exhibited variability 
between participants (e.g. mean±sd walking speed of 0.83±0.12 m·s-1, ranging 
from 0.48 to 1.20 m·s-1). Walking speed and cadence DMOs were lower with 
increasing disease severity (e.g. mean±sd walking speed of 0.88±0.11, 0.85±0.12, 
0.80±0.12 and 0.78±0.14 m·s-1 across Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive 
Lung Disease (GOLD) grades 1 to 4, p<0.001; mean±sd cadence of 93±6, 91±6 and 
89±7 steps·min-1 across GOLD A, B and E, p=0.013). Stride length and duration 
varied across COPD severity levels. Walking speed and cadence bout-to-bout 
variability only varied across dyspnoea severity levels. In a secondary 
analysis, we compared DMO data from people with COPD to a convenience sample of 
19 healthy older adults (47% women, mean age 71±6 years) and found that walking 
speed and cadence varied between participants with COPD and healthy adults (e.g. 
mean±sd walking speed 0.83±0.12 versus 0.90±0.12 m·s-1, p=0.041).
CONCLUSION: In people with COPD, gait DMOs are normally distributed and worsen 
as disease advances. Moreover, walking speed and cadence DMOs are significantly 
altered when compared to healthy peers. Further research should elucidate which 
DMOs can be improved with treatments to enhance mobility and reduce adverse 
events.

Copyright ©The authors 2025.

DOI: 10.1183/13993003.02303-2024
PMCID: PMC12287607
PMID: 40404212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: L. Delgado-Ortiz reports 
support for the present study from Mobilise-D project, funded by the Innovative 
Medicines Initiative 2 (IMI2) Joint Undertaking (JU) under grant agreement 
number 820820, ISGlobal, and the grant “Contratos Predoctorales de Formación en 
Investigación en Salud (PFIS) 2021 of the AES with Exp. FI21/00113” from 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III and the European Social Fund Plus. S. Del Din 
reports support for the present study from European IMI2 JU and EFPIA (for 
Mobilise-D) and National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research 
Centre (BRC); grants from UK Research and Innovation Engineering and Physical 
Sciences Research Council, NIHR, European IMI2 JU and EFPIA (for IDEA-FAST); 
consulting fees from Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd; and support for attending meetings 
from the organising committee of the Brain Health and Neurodegeneration Summer 
School. B. Caulfield reports support for the present study from European 
Commission IMI2 Programme: Mobilise-D project. T. Troosters reports support for 
the present study from European Commission IMI2 Programme: Mobilise-D project. 
J. Garcia-Aymerich reports support for the present study from Mobilise-D 
project, funded by the IMI2 JU under grant agreement number 820820. All other 
authors have nothing to disclose.


62. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Jul;109:102775. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102775. Epub
2025  May 20.

Advances in Alzheimer's therapy: Exploring neuropathological mechanisms to 
revolutionize the future therapeutic landscape.

Sugandhi VV(1), Gadhave DG(2), Ugale AR(1), Kulkarni N(3), Nangare SN(4), Patil 
HP(3), Rath S(5), Saxena R(6), Lavate A(7), Patel AT(8), Jadhav A(7), Paudel 
KR(9).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences, St. John's University, 8000 Utopia 
Parkway, Queens, NY 11439, USA.
(2)College of Pharmacy & Health Sciences, St. John's University, 8000 Utopia 
Parkway, Queens, NY 11439, USA; Department of Pharmaceutics, Dattakala Shikshan 
Sanstha's, Dattakala College of Pharmacy (Affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune 
University), Swami Chincholi, Daund, Pune, Maharashtra 413130, India. Electronic 
address: dnyanraj24@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, R. C. Patel Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, Shirpur, Dhule, Maharashtra 425405, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, Krishna Vishwa Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be 
University), Krishna Institute of Pharmacy, Karad, Dist-Satara, Maharashtra, 
415539, India.
(5)Center for Dermal Research, Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, 145 
Bevier Road, Piscataway 08854, USA.
(6)Graduate Programs in Molecular Biosciences, Rutgers, the State University of 
New Jersey, Piscataway 08854, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutics, Dattakala Shikshan Sanstha's, Dattakala College 
of Pharmacy (Affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University), Swami Chincholi, 
Daund, Pune, Maharashtra 413130, India.
(8)Department of Quality Assurance, Navinta III INC, Boca Raton, FL 33487, USA.
(9)Centre for Inflammation, Faculty of Science, School of Life Science, 
Centenary Institute and University of Technology Sydney, Sydney 2007, Australia. 
Electronic address: Keshavraj.paudel@uts.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still an excessively complicated neurological 
disorder that impacts millions of individuals globally. The ideal defensive 
feature of the central nervous system (CNS) is the intimate junction of 
endothelial cells, which functions as a biological barrier to safely control 
molecular transport throughout the brain. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) 
comprises tightly locked astrocyte cell junctions on CNS blood capillaries. This 
biological barrier shields the brain from hazardous toxins by preventing the 
entry of polar medications, cells, and ions. However, it is very challenging to 
provide any treatment to the brain for neurodegenerative illnesses like 
Alzheimer's. Different causative mechanisms, such as amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, 
tubulin-associated unit (Tau) tangles, and neuroinflammation, cause neuronal 
dysfunction, leading to dementia and memory loss in the subject. Several 
treatments are approved for AD therapy, whereas most only help treat related 
symptoms. Disappointingly, current remedies have not been able to control the 
progression of AD due to associated side effects. Specific pathogenic mechanisms 
are involved in the initiation and development of this disease. Therefore, the 
expected survival of a patient with AD is limited and is approximately ten 
years. Hence, the pathogenic mechanism behind AD progression must be understood 
to better comprehend and improve the overall survival rate. This review 
highlighted the recent insights into AD pathogenesis, molecular mechanisms, 
advancements in theragnostic techniques, the existing updates of clinical 
trials, and emerging innovations for AD medicinal development. That has helped 
researchers develop other strategies to address the shortcomings of traditional 
medications.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102775
PMID: 40403980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


63. Neuroscience. 2025 Jun 21;577:228-239. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.05.019.  Epub 2025 May 20.

Miro1: A potential target for treating neurological disorders.

Zeng L(1), Yang J(2), Zhang C(3), Zhu J(4), Zhong S(5), Liu X(6), Xie H(7), Wang 
L(8), Chen L(9), Zhong M(10), Hua F(11), Liang W(12).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China; Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou 
341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: zlh1101473695@163.com.
(2)Academic Affairs Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
505373510@qq.com.
(3)Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic 
address: 15935135760@163.com.
(4)Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic 
address: zhujunjie13141516@163.com.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Longnan First People's Hospital, Ganzhou 341000 
Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 41499529@qq.com.
(6)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
liuxingmed@163.com.
(7)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
gyfyxhy@163.com.
(8)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
wwwwanglifeng@126.com.
(9)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
zgx8778@126.com.
(10)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: 
zml8802@163.com.
(11)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, 1# Minde Road, Nanchang 330006 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic 
address: huafuzhou@126.com.
(12)Anesthesia Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou 341000 Jiangxi, PR China; Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou 
341000 Jiangxi, PR China. Electronic address: lwd0929@gmu.edu.cn.

The Miro1 protein is a member of the mitochondrial Rho GTPase (Miro) protein 
family and plays a crucial role in regulating the dynamic processes of 
mitochondria and participating in cellular movement and mitochondrial transport. 
In the nervous system, it ensures adequate energy supply for normal neuronal 
function and synaptic transmission. Additionally, Miro1 actively participates in 
the regulation of mitochondrial quality control and stress responses within 
neurons. Its primary function is to sense intracellular stress signals to 
regulate mitochondrial movement and metabolism, thereby adapting to 
environmental changes. Multiple studies have indicated that the Miro1 protein is 
associated with the pathogenesis of various neurological disorders, such as 
Alzheimer's Disease(AD), Parkinson's Disease(PD), and Amyotrophic Lateral 
Sclerosis(ALS). This article reviews the mechanistic role of Miro1 in these 
diseases and summarizes the latest research on its involvement in neurological 
disorders. These efforts aim to provide unified treatment strategies for certain 
neurological disorders and explore the potential for treating complex 
neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.05.019
PMID: 40403957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


64. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jun 26;350:120010. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120010.
Epub  2025 May 20.

Icariin alleviates cognitive dysfunction by reducing neuroinflammation via the 
cGAS-STING pathway.

Lu F(1), Li L(2), Zheng B(1), Wang C(1), Liu Z(1), Huang X(1), Song L(1), Ding 
C(3), Li Y(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, North China University of Science and Technology, 
Tangshan, 063210, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, North China University of Science and Technology, 
Tangshan, 063210, China; Hebei Key Laboratory for Chronic Diseases, Tangshan Key 
Laboratory for Preclinical and Basic Research on Chronic Diseases, School of 
Basic Medical Sciences, North China University of Science and Technology, 
Tangshan, 063210, China.
(3)School of Health Sciences & Biomedical Engineering, Hebei University of 
Technology, Tianjin, 300130, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, North China University of Science and Technology, 
Tangshan, 063210, China. Electronic address: yangli@ncst.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Epimedium brevicornu Maxim, a Chinese herbal 
medicine, is known for its efficacy in nourishing the kidneys. Icariin (ICA), 
the primary active ingredient in Epimedium brevicornu Maxim., possesses multiple 
pharmacological properties, yet its impact on Alzheimer's disease (AD) warrants 
further exploration.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Study aims to explore the inhibitory impact of ICA on 
neuroinflammation in AD via the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of 
interferon genes (STING) pathway.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: SPF-grade male ICR mice were used to establish an AD 
model by lateral ventricle injection of Aβ1-42. Behavioral, pathological 
assessments, as well as immunofluorescence staining, molecular docking, and 
Western blot analyses, were conducted to evaluate the effects of ICA treatment 
on memory function, neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, and the cGAS- STING 
pathway in mice.
RESULTS: ICA significantly improved memory impairment, alleviated neuronal 
damage and apoptosis, and suppressed neuroinflammation in AD mice. Additionally, 
ICA inhibited microglial hyperactivation, promoting the transition from the M1 
to the M2 phenotype. It specifically inhibited the activation of the cGAS-STING 
pathway and down-regulated the expression of cGAS, STING, p-TBK1/TBK1, 
p-IRF3/IRF3 and p-NF-κB/NF-κB. Furthermore, molecular docking revealed that the 
binding energy between ICA and cGAS was -7.07 kcal/mol, indicating a stable 
interaction. Further validation using the cGAS-selective small molecule 
inhibitor RU.521 confirmed the protective effects of ICA against cGAS-STING 
signaling on microglial transformation and neuroinflammation.
CONCLUSION: ICA exhibits therapeutic potential in AD by inhibiting microglial 
transformation and neuroinflammation through the cGAS-STING pathway, positioning 
it as a candidate drug for AD treatment targeting this pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120010
PMID: 40403897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


65. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jun 26;350:120015. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120015.
Epub  2025 May 21.

Erzhi pill promotes norepinephrine synthesis in locus coeruleus through 
ERβ-TFAP2A-TH plays a neuroprotective role.

Xue A(1), Zhao D(2), Xu H(3), Lei X(4), Li D(5), Ren Y(2), Zhou Q(2), Qiu Q(2), 
Cai L(6), Zhang Y(7), Zhang N(8).

Author information:
(1)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China; College of 
Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 
150040, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, 150040, China.
(3)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China; Department of 
Pharmacy, Wuxi Health higher Vocational and Technical School, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 
214028, China.
(4)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China; Wuxi Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine,Jiangsu CM Clinical 
Innovation Center of Degenerative Bone & Joint Disease, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, 
China.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, 150040, China; Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetic Improvement 
of Horticulture Crops (Northeast Region), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs, College of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Northeast 
Agricultural University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150040, China.
(6)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China. Electronic 
address: wxzy018@njucm.edu.cn.
(7)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China; Wuxi Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine,Jiangsu CM Clinical 
Innovation Center of Degenerative Bone & Joint Disease, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, 
China. Electronic address: wxzy007@njucm.edu.cn.
(8)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, 150040, China; Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine,Jiangsu CM Clinical Innovation Center of Degenerative Bone & 
Joint Disease, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214071, China. Electronic address: 
zhangning0454@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Erzhi Pill (EZP), a classical Chinese herbal 
formula for yin-nourishing and kidney-tonifying, has been traditionally 
prescribed for insomnia and amnesia, and shows therapeutic potential for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its active components and precise mechanisms 
of action against AD remain elusive.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to identify the key active components and 
molecular targets of EZP responsible for improving cognitive dysfunction and to 
elucidate its underlying mechanisms.
MATREIALS AND METHODS: Behavioral and histomorphological analyses will be used 
to validate the efficacy of EZP in ameliorating cognitive impairment in 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced models. Untargeted metabolomics characterized 
metabolic profile alterations in the locus coeruleus (LC), while targeted 
metabolomics focused on specific metabolic pathways. Microdialysis coupled with 
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HR-MS) analyzed EZP's chemical components in 
LC dialysates. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted potential 
targets, with binding affinities validated by surface plasmon resonance (SPR). 
Molecular biology techniques were employed to investigate relevant signaling 
pathways.
RESULTS: EZP significantly improved learning and memory capabilities in 
LPS-induced models, accompanied by enhanced neuronal activity. Metabolomic 
profiling revealed that EZP exerted its effects primarily through modulation of 
alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism pathways, as well as phenylalanine 
and tyrosine metabolic networks. Specifically, EZP treatment resulted in 
decreased tyrosine (Tyr) levels and increased norepinephrine (NE) concentrations 
in the LC. Western blot analysis further demonstrated upregulated expression of 
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine β-hydroxylase (DβH) proteins in LC 
tissues. Phytochemical analysis identified 45 prototype components and 14 
metabolites in EZP, among which apigenin and wedelolactone were characterized as 
potential bioactive ingredients. Network pharmacology combined with molecular 
docking revealed estrogen receptor β (ERβ) as a critical target mediating EZP's 
anti-AD effects. SPR validated stronger binding affinity of apigenin and 
wedelolactone to ERβ compared with G-protein-coupled receptor 30 (GPR30). 
Mechanistic studies showed that these compounds activated ERβ signaling, 
restored TFAP2A/TH transcriptional activity, and promoted NE biosynthesis, 
thereby ameliorating cognitive deficits in AD models.
CONCLUSION: This study not only elucidates that EZP ameliorates cognitive 
dysfunction in AD)via the ERβ-TFAP2A/TH signaling pathway but also proposes NE 
augmentation as a novel therapeutic strategy for AD management.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120015
PMID: 40403892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


66. Exp Neurol. 2025 Sep;391:115315. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115315. Epub
2025  May 21.

Intracerebroventricular phospho-tau immunotherapy alleviates cortical 
phospho-tau burden and motor phenotype in a neuron-specific P301S tauopathy 
mouse.

Kemppainen S(1), Aramburu-Núñez M(2), Koivisto H(3), Posado-Fernández A(4), 
Felix-Garcia MR(3), Nurminen K(3), Häkli S(3), Abelli-Deulofeu E(3), Kaisto 
M(3), Custodia A(5), van Olst L(6), Willman RM(1), Mäkinen P(1), Miettinen 
PO(3), Schouten M(6), Iglesias-Rey R(7), Kamermans A(6), Martiskainen H(1), 
Rauramaa T(8), de Vries HE(9), Eng E(3), Salo R(3), Kettunen M(3), Gröhn O(3), 
Gureviciene I(3), Chmielevski P(10), Ouro A(2), Lapresa R(11), Agulla J(11), 
Almeida A(11), Doria G(12), Flores O(12), Aguiar P(13), Carmans S(14), Roucourt 
B(14), Hiltunen M(1), Sobrino T(2), Tanila H(15).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(2)NeuroAging Group (NEURAL), Clinical Neurosciences Research Laboratory (LINC), 
Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(3)A. I. Virtanen Institute, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(4)NeuroAging Group (NEURAL), Clinical Neurosciences Research Laboratory (LINC), 
Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain; STAB VIDA Lda, Caparica, Portugal.
(5)NeuroAging Group (NEURAL), Clinical Neurosciences Research Laboratory (LINC), 
Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(6)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Neuroimaging and Biotechnology Laboratory (NOBEL), Clinical Neurosciences 
Research Laboratory (LINC), Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela 
(IDIS), Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(8)Department of Pathology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland; 
Institute of Clinical Medicine-Pathology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(9)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Medical Biochemistry, 
Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(10)Biotechpharma UAB, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(11)Institute of Functional Biology and Genomics, CSIC, Universidad de 
Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain; Institute of Biomedical Research of Salamanca 
(IBSAL), Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, Universidad de Salamanca, CSIC, 
Salamanca, Spain.
(12)STAB VIDA Lda, Caparica, Portugal.
(13)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Molecular Imaging Biomarkers 
Group. Center for Research in Molecular Medicine and Chronic Diseases (CIMUS), 
University of Santiago de Compostela (USC), Campus Vida, Santiago de Compostela, 
Galicia, Spain; Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Biomarkers 
Group, Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(14)reMYND NV, Leuven, Belgium.
(15)A. I. Virtanen Institute, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
Electronic address: heikki.tanila@uef.fi.

Pathological tau accumulation disrupts neuronal function, leading to 
neurodegeneration and dementia in tauopathies, such as Alzheimer's disease and 
frontotemporal dementia. Despite the progression of several anti-tau therapies 
to clinical trials, no disease-modifying treatments for tauopathies exist. Tau 
hyperphosphorylation is a key factor in pathology progression. Among all tau 
phosphorylation sites targeted in preclinical passive immunization studies, the 
classic AT8 pathological tau phosphorylation sites have remained understudied. 
Thus, we investigated the potential of immunotherapy against phosphorylated tau 
(pTau) in a P301S mouse model of tauopathy. We administered a new monoclonal B6 
antibody that targets tau phosphorylation sites at serine 202, threonine 205 and 
serine 208 either systemically for 3 months or locally into the cerebral 
ventricles for 1 or 2 months via an osmotic minipump. Systemic administration 
failed to reach the brain effectively, and subsequently, was not able to 
alleviate the progressive motor impairment seen in this tauopathy mouse model. 
By contrast, intraventricular administration improved motor function in earlier 
stages of pathology but had a lesser effect in later stages. The local 
administration for 8 weeks reduced the number of pTau positive neurons in cortex 
and hippocampus. Our findings indicate that targeting the classical pathological 
tau phosphorylation sites can ameliorate tau pathology and improve function in a 
mouse tauopathy model. These results add to growing evidence supporting the 
efforts in developing tau-targeting immunotherapies for neurodegenerative 
diseases associated with pathological tau deposits.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115315
PMID: 40403829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Goncalo Doria 
G, and Orfeu Flores are employees of Stab Vida Lda, Caparica, Portugal. Adrian 
Posado-Fenandez is a former employee of Stab Vida Lda, Caparica, Portugal. Piotr 
Chmielevski is an employee of Biotechpharma UAB, Vilnius, Lithuania. Sofie 
Carmans is an employee of reMYND NV, Leuven, Belgium. Bart Roucourt is a former 
employee of reMYND NV, Leuven, Belgium. Kemppainen S, Aramburu-Núñez M, Koivisto 
H, Felix-Garcia MR, Nurminen K, Häkli S, Abelli-Deulofeu E, Kaisto M, Custodia 
A, van Olst L, Willman R-M, Mäkinen P, Miettinen PO, Schouten M, Ramón 
Iglesias-Rey, Kamermans A, Martiskainen H, Rauramaa T, de Vries HE, Eng E, Salo 
R, Kettunen M, Gröhn O, Gureviciene I, Ouro A, Lapresa R, Agulla J, Almeida A, 
Aguiar P, Hiltunen M, Sobrino T, Tanila H … … are all academic researchers with 
no interests to declare.


67. Neuron. 2025 May 21;113(10):1562-1578.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.03.031.

Specific targeting of brain endothelial cells using enhancer AAV vectors.

Velazquez-Rivera E(1), Dey O(1), Kim NS(1), Cao W(1), Ye Q(1), Gao P(1), Thai 
A(2), Nguyen JK(1), Zhang H(1), Ting JT(3), Gopi M(2), Ren B(4), Holmes TC(5), 
Xu X(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 
92697, USA.
(3)Human Cell Types Program, Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA 
98109, USA.
(4)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, University 
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Center for Neural Circuit 
Mapping (CNCM), University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(5)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA; Center for Neural Circuit Mapping 
(CNCM), University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA; Department of Computer Science, 
University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA; Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA; 
Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of California, 
Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA; Center for Neural Circuit Mapping (CNCM), 
University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA. Electronic address: 
xiangmix@hs.uci.edu.

Brain endothelial cells (BECs) in brain vasculature are critical structural and 
functional components of the blood brain barrier (BBB). Adeno-associated virus 
(AAV) capsids have previously been genetically engineered to confer specificity 
to endothelial cells, but these capsids show limited endothelial cell 
specificity that varies by delivery conditions. We developed a set of new 
BEC-enhancer AAV vectors that specifically target BECs based on the 
cis-regulatory elements identified from single-cell epigenetic datasets. Ex vivo 
and in vivo characterization of BEC-enhancer AAVs in wild-type, Ai9 reporter, 
and Alzheimer's disease model mouse brains show their utility for high 
transduction selectivity of the BECs with little off-target transduction in the 
liver. Our BEC-enhancer AAVs target the brain vasculature by systemic 
administration and can be minimally invasive in terms of the route of 
administration. They are useful new tools for delivering genetic payloads 
specifically to BECs for normal and diseased brain studies.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.03.031
PMCID: PMC12117388
PMID: 40403707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


68. Asian J Psychiatr. 2025 Jul;109:104528. doi: 10.1016/j.ajp.2025.104528. Epub 
2025 May 15.

Factors contributing to treatment non-compliance in a large sample of 
psychiatric patients in Turkey.

Bener A(1), Saldı MH(2), Bhugra D(3), Ventriglio A(4).

Author information:
(1)Depts. of Biostatistics and Public Health, School of Medicine, Istanbul 
Medipol University, İstanbul, Turkey; Dept. of Evidence for Population Health 
Unit, School of Epidemiology and Health Sciences, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. Electronic address: abdulbari.bener@medipol.edu.tr.
(2)Depts. of Logistic Management, School of Medicine, Istanbul Medipol 
University, İstanbul, Turkey. Electronic address: mustafa.saldi@medipol.edu.tr.
(3)Centre for Affective Disorders, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, UK,. Electronic address: dinesh.bhugra@kcl.ac.uk.
(4)Dept of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy. Electronic address: antonio.ventriglio@unifg.it.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the determinants of treatment 
non-compliance among psychiatric patients by exploring related factors.
METHODS: This is a cross-sectional study including patients hospitalized for 
psychiatric disorders and aged between 25 and 70 years in Istanbul, Turkey. 1648 
patients were approached and 1310 (79.5 %) agreed to participate. A set of 
sociodemographic and clinical variables were collected as well as the Turkish 
Version of the 9-item Patient-Doctor Relationship Questionnaire (PDRQ-9) was 
administered. Statistical analyses included t-tests, chi-square tests, factor 
analysis, Confirmatory Factor Analysis, and computation of the Lorenz curve and 
Gini index.
RESULTS: Of 1310 patients, 761 (58.1 %) were compliant with treatments while 549 
(41.9 %) were considered as non-compliant. Patients aged above 60 years were 
significantly less represented in the compliant group of patients (p = 0.008). 
Non-compliant patients were more like to be obese (p = 0.046), cigarette smokers 
(p = 0.019), nargileh-hookah users (p = 0.037), and perform less physical 
exercise (p = 0.044). Patients diagnosed with schizophrenia (p = 0.034), bipolar 
disorder (p = 0.016), depression (p = 0.008), obsessive-compulsive disorder 
(p = 0.015) and dementia/Alzheimer's disease (p = 0.003) were more likely to be 
compliant with treatments whereas patients affected by stress or post-traumatic 
stress disorder were significantly less complaint (p = 0.015 and p = 0.006, 
respectively). The main factors contributing to non-compliance included lack of 
social supervision and family support (p < 0.001), not regular attendance of the 
mental health services (p = 0.016), lack of insight towards treatments 
(p = 0.0124), lack of satisfaction with the doctor (p = 0.021), lack of 
education regarding medications side effects (p < 0.001), and poor perceived 
improvement with treatment (p = 0.005). Concurrently, the exploratory and 
confirmatory factor analyses confirmed validity and psychometric characteristics 
of the Turkish version of the 9-item Patient-Doctor Relationship Questionnaire 
(PDRQ-9).
CONCLUSION: This study reported a high prevalence rate of non-compliance among 
psychiatric patients. An empathetic patient-doctor approach, shared decision 
making as well as socially supportive and psychoeducational interventions are 
potentially useful for improving patients' attitudes toward treatments and their 
compliance.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2025.104528
PMID: 40403677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest No conflict of 
interest was declared by the authors.


69. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2025 Jul 1;1261:124657. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2025.124657. Epub 2025 May 16.

Screening and identification of AChE inhibitors from walnut kernel by a 
combination of bio-affinity ultrafiltration, AChE-functionalized magnetic 
nanoparticles and UPLC-Q-exactive orbitrap MS.

Ding Y(1), Song YT(1), Yang ZX(1), Xu XJ(1), Zhang QZ(1), Wang DM(2), Pan YN(1), 
Ren K(1), Ren SM(3), Liu XQ(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
103 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 103 Wenhua Road, 
Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, China.
(3)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
103 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, China. Electronic address: 
renshumeng0718@163.com.
(4)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
103 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, China. Electronic address: 
liuxiaoqiu3388@126.com.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is widely concerned as a hotspot target for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to screen AChE 
inhibitors from walnut kernel (WK) through the techniques combined of 
bio-affinity ultrafiltration, AChE-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles and 
UPLC-Q-Exactive Orbitrap MS. The results showed that WK extract improved 
acetylcholine level and reduced AChE level in the hippocampus and cortex of AD 
mice with kidney yang deficiency. AChE inhibition experiment showed WK extract 
has the best activity with IC50 values at 1.310 mg/mL. Bio-affinity 
ultrafiltration combined with UPLC-Q-Exactive Orbitrap MS screened out 3 active 
compounds, including ellagic acid 4-O-xyloside, ellagic acid (EA) and 
glansreginin A. In order to avoid false positive results, AChE-functionalized 
magnetic nanoparticles combined with HPLC was used to ligand fish again, and EA 
was fished. And the IC50 value of EA on AChE was 1.486 mg/mL. Molecular docking 
showed EA had the calculated binding energies at -8.468 kJ/moL with AChE, and 
could interact with the amino acid residues of ASP 74, TYR 133 and GLU 202 via 
hydrogen bonds and had the pi-pi bonds with TRP 86. The developed ligand fishing 
method is simple and efficient for screening potential AChE inhibitors from 
medicinal plant.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2025.124657
PMID: 40403582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


70. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Jun 26;159:114902. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114902.  Epub 2025 May 21.

cGAS-STING and neurodegenerative diseases: A molecular crosstalk and therapeutic 
perspective.

Dhapola R(1), Paidlewar M(1), Kumari S(1), Sharma P(1), Vellingiri B(2), Medhi 
B(3), HariKrishnaReddy D(4).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda 151401, Punjab, India.
(2)Human Cytogenetics and Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Zoology, School of 
Basic Sciences, Central University of Punjab, 151401 Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(4)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda 151401, Punjab, India. Electronic address: 
harikrishnareddy0011@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) share key pathological 
features, including neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, autophagic dysfunction, and DNA damage. By identifying cytosolic 
DNA and triggering the type I interferon response, the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase 
(cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway regulates 
neuroinflammation. Dysregulated cGAS-STING signaling has been linked to 
neuroinflammation and neuronal degeneration across multiple neurodegenerative 
conditions. In many neurodegenerative disorders, neuroinflammation is mediated 
by the cGAS-STING pathway. Mitochondrial malfunction and impaired autophagy 
cause cytosolic DNA buildup in Huntington's, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's 
diseases, which activates cGAS-STING and drives chronic inflammation. This 
pathway is triggered by TDP-43 pathology and nucleic acid dysregulation in ALS 
and FTD, which leads to neuronal destruction. Both central demyelination and 
peripheral immunological responses are linked to cGAS-STING activation in 
multiple sclerosis. Various inhibitors, such as RU.521, H-151, and naturally 
occurring compounds like metformin, potentially attenuate cGAS-STING-mediated 
neuroinflammation and associated pathologies. H-151 significantly decreased the 
expression of pro-inflammatory markers in murine macrophage J774 cells activated 
with cGAMP: TNF-α by 68 %, IFN-β by 84 %, and CXCL10 by 96 %. cGAS-STING 
inhibitors target neuroinflammation, offering a disease-modifying approach 
unlike current symptomatic treatments. However, challenges like blood-brain 
barrier penetration, off-target effects, and immune suppression hinder clinical 
translation, necessitating optimized drug delivery and immune modulation. With a 
focus on its potential for future clinical applications, this review explores 
the role of the cGAS-STING pathway in neurodegeneration and new treatment 
approaches.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114902
PMID: 40403503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


71. Nutrition. 2025 Sep;137:112804. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2025.112804. Epub 2025 Apr
 16.

Beyond epilepsy management: A narrative review of the health effects of 
ketogenic diets.

Chamma L(1), Chamma N(1), Mattar L(2), Slaybe M(2), Haidar S(3), Rizk R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American University, Byblos, 
Lebanon.
(2)Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Lebanese International University, 
Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: suzan.haidar@liu.edu.lb.
(4)Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American University, Byblos, 
Lebanon; Institut National de Santé Publique, d'Epidémiologie Clinique, et de 
Toxicologie (INSPECT-LB), Beirut, Lebanon.

The Ketogenic diet (KD), characterized by a low-carbohydrate/high-fat intake, 
induces a state of ketosis, where the body primarily relies on using fat for 
energy instead of carbohydrates. This diet is historically used in epilepsy 
management. Recently, KD has been the subject of increased research and public 
interest for its additional potential health effects. This narrative review 
offers an overview of the potential health effects of the KD and outlines its 
clinical implications. We searched PubMed and Google Scholar for randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) published between 2014 and 2024, exploring the health 
effects of KD in humans beyond epilepsy management. We included 34 RCTs on 
various diseases and health outcomes. The findings highlight that the KD is 
particularly effective for weight loss and metabolic health, making it 
especially relevant for individuals with obesity and metabolic syndrome, both of 
which are of major public health concern worldwide. Additionally, the KD shows 
significant promise in managing neurological disorders, particularly Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's diseases, with studies suggesting improvements in cognitive 
function and disease progression. The diet has also been shown to reduce the 
frequency and severity of migraines, offering potential relief for those 
affected. Furthermore, the KD may improve reproductive health, though more 
research is needed in this area. While the diet demonstrates benefits in these 
key areas, potential risks, including impacts on kidney and liver function, 
nutrient deficiencies, and adverse pregnancy outcomes, must be considered. The 
majority of included RCTs were of limited sample size and duration. Therefore, 
KD may be a promising dietary approach for weight control, neurological disease, 
and metabolic syndrome management, yet individualized guidance based on the 
medical history of each patient is crucial. Further research with larger samples 
and longer follow-up duration is needed to address existing gaps and improve our 
understanding of the health effects of the KD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2025.112804
PMID: 40403346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Reports a relationship with that 
includes. Has patent pending to. If there are other authors, they declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


72. JMIR Med Educ. 2025 May 22;11:e72000. doi: 10.2196/72000.

Using Web-Based Continuing Education to Improve New Diagnoses of Alzheimer 
Disease in Claims Data: Retrospective Case-Control Study.

Lucero K(1), Finnegan T(1), Borson S(2).

Author information:
(1)Medscape, 283-299 Market Street, 2 Gateway Center - 4th Floor, Newark, NJ, 
07102, United States, 1 2123016700.
(2)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease (AD) presents significant challenges to health 
care systems worldwide. Early and accurate diagnosis of AD is crucial for 
effective management and care to enable timely treatment interventions that can 
preserve cognitive function and improve patient quality of life. However, there 
are often significant delays in diagnosis. Continuing medical education (CME) 
has enhanced physician knowledge and confidence in various medical fields, 
including AD. Notably, web-based CME has been shown to positively influence 
physician confidence, which can lead to changes in practice and increased 
adoption of evidence-based treatment selection.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the impact of a targeted, web-based CME 
intervention on health care providers' confidence, competence, and real-world 
outcomes in diagnosing early AD.
METHODS: The study employed a 2-phase design. Phase I used a pre-post assessment 
to evaluate immediate changes in knowledge and confidence before and after CME 
participation. Phase II involved a retrospective, matched case-control study to 
examine the impact of CME on AD diagnoses in claims data.
RESULTS: A 1-way ANOVA showed a significant effect of CME regarding change in 
the volume of AD diagnoses (F1900=5.50; P=.02). Compared to controls, CME 
learners were 1.6 times more likely to diagnose AD, resulting in an estimated 
net increase of 7939 new diagnoses annually. Post-CME confidence was associated 
with a greater likelihood of diagnosing AD (odds ratio 1.64; 95% CI 0.92-2.92; 
P=.09; n=219).
CONCLUSIONS: Web-based CME participation is associated with increased real-world 
AD diagnoses. Findings offer a mechanism to explain the changes in clinical 
practice seen as a result of the CME intervention, which improves skills and 
confidence.

© Katie Lucero, Thomas Finnegan, Soo Borson. Originally published in JMIR 
Medical Education (https://mededu.jmir.org).

DOI: 10.2196/72000
PMCID: PMC12121534
PMID: 40402489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: TF and KL are employees 
of Medscape, LLC. SB receives funding from the Centers for Disease Control, 
National Institute on Aging, and National Institute of Neurological Disease and 
Stroke; honoraria as deputy editor of the Journal of the American Geriatrics 
Society; consulting fees for service on clinical and scientific advisory boards 
for Biogen, Eisai, Novo Nordisk, Abbvie, Lilly, and Linus Health, and as a 
speaker and content consultant from Medscape.


73. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 22. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05051-9. Online ahead of 
print.

Glycation in Alzheimer's Disease and Type 2 Diabetes: The Prospect of Dual Drug 
Approaches for Therapeutic Interventions.

Ayoub S(1), Arabi M(1), Al-Najjar Y(1), Laswi I(2), Outeiro TF(3)(4)(5)(6), 
Chaari A(7).

Author information:
(1)Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, Qatar Foundation, Education City, P.O. Box 
24144, Doha, Qatar.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale New Haven Hospital, New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Experimental Neurodegeneration, Center for Biostructural 
Imaging of Neurodegeneration, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(4)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Newcastle, NE2 
4HH, UK.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary Sciences, Göttingen, Germany.
(6)Scientific Employee With an Honorary Contract at Deutsches Zentrum für 
Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE), Von-Siebold-Straße 3a, 37075, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(7)Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, Qatar Foundation, Education City, P.O. Box 
24144, Doha, Qatar. alc2033@qatar-med.cornell.edu.

As global life expectancy increases, the prevalence of neurodegenerative 
diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to rise. Since therapeutic 
options are minimal, a deeper understanding of the pathophysiology is essential 
for improved diagnosis and treatments. AD is marked by the aggregation of Aβ 
proteins, tau hyperphosphorylation, and progressive neuronal loss, though its 
precise origins remain poorly understood. Meanwhile, type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) is characterized by chronic hyperglycemia, leading to the formation of 
advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which are implicated in tissue damage 
and neurotoxicity. These AGEs can be resistant to proteolysis and, therefore, 
accumulate, exacerbating AD pathology and accelerating neurodegeneration. 
Insulin resistance, a hallmark of T2DM, further complicates AD pathogenesis by 
promoting tau hyperphosphorylation and Aβ plaque accumulation. Additionally, gut 
microbiome dysbiosis in T2DM fosters AGE accumulation and neuroinflammation, 
underscoring the intricate relationship between metabolic disorders, gut health, 
and neurodegenerative processes. This complex interplay presents both a 
challenge and a potential avenue for therapeutic intervention. Emerging evidence 
suggests that antidiabetic medications may offer cognitive benefits in AD, as 
well as in other neurodegenerative conditions, pointing to a shared 
pathophysiology. Thus, we posit that targeting AGEs, insulin signaling, and gut 
microbiota dynamics presents promising opportunities for innovative treatment 
approaches in AD and T2DM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05051-9
PMID: 40402411

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


74. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 22. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05071-5. Online ahead of 
print.

The Role of Fatty Acid Binding Protein 7 in Neurological Diseases.

Chen Y(1), Liu J(2), He Y(1), Lü Y(2), Yu W(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 Yixuayuan 
Road, Yu Zhong District, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 Yixuayuan 
Road, Yu Zhong District, Chongqing, 400016, China. yuweihua@cqmu.edu.cn.

Fatty acid binding protein 7 (FABP7) is a pivotal cytoplasmic protein involved 
in the transport and metabolism of fatty acids, with critical functions in the 
nervous system. This review highlights recent advances in understanding the role 
and mechanisms of FABP7 in neurological diseases. It begins with an overview of 
FABP7's distribution and expression in the nervous system, emphasizing its 
involvement in essential biological processes such as lipid metabolism, energy 
regulation, synaptic transmission, cell growth, and neuroinflammation. This 
review also explores FABP7's associations with major neurological disorders, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), schizophrenia, and 
depression, shedding light on its dual roles in neuroprotection and 
neurodegeneration. These findings position FABP7 as a promising target for novel 
therapeutic strategies. By unraveling its precise mechanisms and contributions 
to both neural health and disease, future research on FABP7 has the potential to 
revolutionize treatments for neurological disorders, offering innovative 
directions for therapeutic development.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05071-5
PMID: 40402408

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


75. Mol Pharm. 2025 Jul 7;22(7):4145-4157. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5c00382.  Epub 2025 May 22.

Intranasal Delivery of Metabolically Resilient Glutathione: In Vivo 
Pharmacokinetic, Permeation, and Efficacy Studies.

Bhilare KD(1), Dobariya P(1), Lee A(1), Xie W(1), Xie J(1), Meints J(2)(3), 
Vince R(1), Lee MK(2)(3), More SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Design, College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United States.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55455, United States.
(3)Institute for Translational Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United States.

Nose-to-brain delivery is an attractive drug delivery strategy for the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as it offers direct penetration of drugs into the 
brain by surpassing the blood-brain barrier, while reducing the potential 
systemic side effects. We developed a glutathione analogue, ψ-GSH, that resists 
catabolism and reduces AD-related behavioral and pathological abnormalities in 
vivo. Although ψ-GSH is effective via intraperitoneal administration, limited 
oral availability hinders the clinical translation of ψ-GSH. In this study, we 
sought to evaluate if intranasal ψ-GSH administration can provide 
neuroprotection in an acute mouse model of AD-related pathology. The 
pharmacokinetic analysis confirmed brain delivery of the compound to levels 
4-fold higher than those achieved by an efficacious systemic dose of ψ-GSH. 
Unaffected stability in simulated nasal fluid and mucosa further displayed the 
feasibility of this delivery method. Repeated intranasal administration of ψ-GSH 
prevented cognitive impairment induced by the intracerebroventricular injection 
of Aβ1-42 without significant adverse effects. Biochemical and 
immunohistochemical analyses displayed the beneficial effect of the treatment on 
oxidative stress and inflammatory markers by engaging GSH-dependent mechanisms, 
mirroring the pharmacological effects of intraperitoneal ψ-GSH. Additionally, in 
vitro directional transport studies using a human nasal epithelial cell line 
showed directional brain transport of ψ-GSH, without compromising the integrity 
of tight junction proteins. Collectively, our results demonstrate intranasal 
delivery as a safe and effective alternative for brain delivery of ψ-GSH at 
pharmacologically relevant concentrations for the treatment of neurological 
conditions. The study supports future formulation studies for intranasal ψ-GSH 
administration and its efficacy evaluation in transgenic AD mouse models for 
preclinical advancement.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5c00382
PMCID: PMC12234238
PMID: 40401709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70201. doi: 10.1002/alz.70201.

Global multi-specialty clinician perspectives on the implementation of 
Alzheimer's disease blood biomarkers.

Rodda J(1)(2), Kuchenbecker LA(3)(4), Borelli WV(5)(6)(7)(8), DeMarco ML(9)(10), 
Castilhos RM(11), Cawston EE(12), Chabrashvili T(13), Budelier MM(14), 
Duran-Aniotz C(15), Udeh-Momoh C(16)(17), Akman-Anderson L(18), Mielke MM(16), 
Pereira AC(19)(20), Algeciras-Schimnich A(21), Keshavan A(22).

Author information:
(1)Kent and Medway Medical School, Canterbury, UK.
(2)Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership Trust, Maidstone, UK.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(4)Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(5)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Pharmacology and Therapeutics 
(PPGFT), UFRGS, Rua Ramiro Barcelos, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(6)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry (PPGBioq), UFRGS, Rua 
Ramiro Barcelos, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(7)Department of Morphological Sciences, UFRGS, Rua Sarmento Leite, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.
(8)Memory Center at the Hospital Moinhos de Vento, Rua Cel Aparício Borges, 
Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(9)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, St. Paul's Hospital, 
Providence Health Care, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(11)Neurology Service, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, 
Brazil.
(12)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology and the Centre for 
Brain Research, The University of Auckland, Grafton, Auckland, New Zealand.
(13)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, USA.
(14)TriCore Reference Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA.
(15)Latin American Institute for Brain Health (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo 
Ibáñez, Peñalolén, Chile.
(16)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(17)Brain and Mind Institute, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(18)NeuroVision Imaging, Inc., Garden Highway, Sacramento, California, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(20)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(21)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(22)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, National 
Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Clinicians' views on the clinical readiness of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) blood biomarkers (BBMs) are not well understood.
METHODS: The Alzheimer's Association International Society to Advance 
Alzheimer's Research and Treatment Biofluid-Based Biomarkers Professional 
Interest Area conducted a survey to elicit clinician opinions on AD BBM 
implementation, including contexts of use, assay selection, reporting, and 
result interpretation.
RESULTS: Clinician respondents (n = 212) practiced in Europe (56%), North 
America (24%), the Caribbean and Central/South America (11%), and other 
continents (9%). Most respondents were medical doctors (80%) practicing in 
secondary or tertiary care (88%). For 56%, cerebrospinal fluid AD biomarkers or 
amyloid positron emission tomography were accessible, but 48% agreed and 52% 
disagreed with the implementation of AD BBMs in any clinical context. 
Respondents emphasized the need for data from diverse populations and 
educational resources to support test interpretation.
DISCUSSION: Surveyed clinicians generally agreed with published appropriate use 
recommendations but were divided on AD BBM readiness for clinical use.
HIGHLIGHTS: A survey of clinicians was conducted regarding clinical readiness of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) blood biomarkers (BBMs). Views were split on AD BBM 
clinical readiness: 48% agreed, 52% disagreed. Most responders supported AD BBM 
use for treatment decisions. Most responders opposed AD BBM testing in 
asymptomatic individuals. Test performance data and educational materials to aid 
interpretation were of high importance.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70201
PMCID: PMC12096314
PMID: 40401661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W.V.B. has served on the scientific advisory 
board of Masima, and he is also a co‐founder and a minority shareholder at 
Masima. M.L.D. participates on advisory boards for Eisai and Roche, is a 
co‐chair for the Academy of Diagnostics and Laboratory Medicine guidance 
document on AD biomarkers, and has received in‐kind support for laboratory 
materials from Meso Scale Discovery, Fujirebio, and Roche. R.M.C. has 
participated on an advisory board for Biogen and receives an Alzheimer's 
Association research grant. M.M.B. reports advisory board participation for 
Roche Diagnostics and Greiner Bio‐One; travel support and lecture fees from 
Roche Diagnostics and Bio‐Rad; licensing income from technology licensed by 
Washington University to C2N Diagnostics; and is a co‐inventor on the following 
patents related to Alzheimer's disease testing: 018941/US, PCT/US2022/015998. 
Although not directly funding this work, C.U.M. additionally receives funding 
support from The Alzheimer's Association (SAGA23‐1141999), Wellcome Leap and 
Temasek Trust Dynamic Resilience Award, National Institutes of Health (NIH; 
RO1‐AG074562), Office for Veterans’ Affairs UK Defense and Security Accelerator 
(DASA) Fund (G2‐SCH‐2022‐11‐12245), Global Brain Health Institute 
(UFRA‐424|CA‐0241758), Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative Global Cohorts Fund, and 
RoseTrees Foundation (Seedcorn2021∖100220). L.A.A. is an inventor on a patent 
pending (EP‐22‐772‐019.0). M.M.M. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or has consulted for Acadia, Althira, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche; received speaking honoraria from Novo Nordisk, PeerView 
Institute, and Roche; and receives grant support from the Alzheimer's 
Association. A.C.P. has patents unrelated to this work licensed to 
Neurobiopharma, LLC; serves on the scientific advisory board of Sinaptica 
Therapeutics and has served as a consultant to Eisai and Quanterix; and receives 
grant support from the Alzheimer's Association. AAS has participated on advisory 
boards for Roche Diagnostics and Fujirebio Diagnostics, and has received speaker 
honoraria from Roche Diagnostics. A.K., J.R., L.A.K., E.E.C., and C.D.A. report 
no conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


77. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e14621. doi: 10.1002/alz.14621.

Biomarker discovery in Alzheimer's and neurodegenerative diseases using Nucleic 
Acid Linked Immuno-Sandwich Assay.

Ashton NJ(1)(2)(3), Benedet AL(1), Molfetta GD(1), Pola I(1), Anastasi F(4)(5), 
Fernández-Lebrero A(4)(5)(6)(7), Puig-Pijoan A(4)(6)(8), Keshavan A(9), Schott 
J(9)(10), Tan K(1), Simrén J(1), Gomes BF(1), Montoliu-Gaya L(1), Isaacson 
R(11)(12), Bongianni M(13), Tolassi C(14), Cantoni V(15), Alberici A(15), 
Padovani A(15)(16)(17)(18), Zanusso G(19), Pilotto A(15)(16)(17)(18), Borroni 
B(15)(16), Suárez-Calvet M(4)(5)(6)(20), Blennow K(1)(21)(22)(23), Zetterberg 
H(1)(9)(10)(21)(24)(25).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(2)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(3)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(4)Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(11)Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine and New York Presbyterian, 
New York, New York, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Florida Atlantic University, Charles E. Schmidt 
College of Medicine, Boca Raton, Florida, USA.
(13)Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicine, and Movement Sciences, Policlinico 
G. B. Rossi, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(14)Clinical Investigation in Laboratory, Maggiore Hospital ASST-Crema, Crema, 
Italy.
(15)Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Neurology Unit, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(16)Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, Azienda Socio Sanitaria 
Territoriale (ASST) Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.
(17)Laboratory of Digital Neurology and Biosensors, University of Brescia, 
Brescia, Italy.
(18)Brain Health Center, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(19)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy.
(20)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Madrid, Spain.
(21)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(22)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Hôpital Pitié, Paris, France.
(23)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P. R. China.
(24)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(25)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Recent advancements in immunological methods accurately quantify 
biofluid biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Despite progress, 
more biomarkers, ideally in blood, are needed for effective disease monitoring 
for AD and other neurodegenerative proteinopathies.
METHODS: We used the Nucleic Acid Linked Immuno-Sandwich Assay (NULISA) central 
nervous system panel for biomarker quantification in plasma, serum, and 
cerebrospinal fluid of patients with AD, mild cognitive impairment, Lewy body 
dementia, progranulin (GRN) mutation carriers.
RESULTS: NULISA identified phosphorylated tau217 and neurofilament light chain 
as the most deregulated biomarkers in the AD continuum and GRN mutation 
carriers, respectively. Importantly, numerous novel proteomic changes were 
observed in each disease endophenotype, which included synaptic processing, 
inflammation, microglial reactivity, TAR DNA-binding protein 43, and α-synuclein 
pathology.
DISCUSSION: We underline the potential of next-generation biomarker 
identification tools to detect novel proteomic features that also incorporate 
established biomarkers. These findings highlight the importance of continued 
biomarker discovery to improve treatment decisions and help us better understand 
the complexities of neurodegenerative disorders.
HIGHLIGHTS: The, direct, or indirect, measures in blood that complement 
phosphorylated tau (p-tau)217 for other proteinopathies or disease progression 
are urgently needed. Significant novel proteomic changes were observed in each 
disease endophenotype in plasma, serum, and cerebrospinal fluid, which included 
proteins involved in synaptic processing, inflammation, microglial reactivity, 
TAR DNA-binding protein 43, and α-synuclein pathology. Nucleic Acid Linked 
Immuno-Sandwich Assay continued to unbiasely highlight p-tau217 and 
neurofilament light chain as the most significantly deregulated blood biomarkers 
in the Alzheimer's disease continuum and progranulin mutation carriers, 
respectively.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14621
PMCID: PMC12096316
PMID: 40401628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in 
symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). BB has served on scientific advisory boards for 
Alector, Alexion, AviadoBio, Denali, Lilly/Prevail, UCB, and Wave. APi received 
consultancy/speaker fees from Abbvie, Bial, Lundbeck, Roche, and Zambon 
pharmaceuticals. APa received grant support from Ministry of Health (MINSAL) and 
Ministry of Education, Research and University (MIUR), from CARIPLO Foundation; 
personal compensation as a consultant/scientific advisory board member for 
Biogen, Lundbeck, Roche, Nutricia, General Healthcare (GE). MS‐C has given 
lectures in symposia sponsored by Almirall, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Roche Farma; received consultancy fees (paid to the 
institution) from Roche Diagnostics; and served on advisory boards of Eli Lilly, 
Grifols, and Roche Diagnostics. He was granted a project and is a site 
investigator of a clinical trial (funded to the institution) by Roche 
Diagnostics. In‐kind support for research (to the institution) was received from 
ADx Neurosciences, Alamar Biosciences, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Janssen Research & Development, and Roche Diagnostics. All other 
authors do not report any conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


78. J Am Heart Assoc. 2025 Jun 3;14(11):e038949. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.124.038949.
Epub  2025 May 22.

Development and Validation of Models to Estimate the Incident Risk of Cognitive 
Impairment and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Older Adults.

Nanna MG(1), Wojdyla D(2), Peterson ED(3), Navar AM(3), Williamson JD(4), 
Colantonio LD(5), Wang SY(6), Jamil Y(7), Bertoni AG(8), Nahid M(9), Damluji 
AA(10), Goyal P(11), Chaudhry SI(12), Gill TM(13), Alexander KP(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine New Haven CT USA.
(2)Duke Clinical Research Institute Durham NC USA.
(3)Division of Cardiology UT Southwestern Medical Center Dallas TX USA.
(4)Section on Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine and the Sticht Center for 
Healthy Aging and Alzheimer's Prevention at Wake Forest School of Medicine 
Winston-Salem NC USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health University of Alabama at 
Birmingham Birmingham AL USA.
(6)Division of Cardiology The CardioVascular Center, Tufts Medical Center Boston 
MA USA.
(7)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine Department of Internal Medicine, Inova 
Schar Heart and Vascular Institute Falls Church VA USA.
(8)Section of Epidemiology and Prevention, Wake Forest School of Medicine 
Winston-Salem NC USA.
(9)Division of General Internal Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine New York NY 
USA.
(10)Inova Center of Outcomes Research Falls Church VA USA.
(11)Program for the Care and Study of the Aging Heart, Department of Medicine, 
Weill Cornell Medicine New York NY USA.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine New Haven CT USA.
(13)Division of Geriatrics Yale School of Medicine New Haven CT USA.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines emphasize using atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
(ASCVD) risk prediction models for treatment decisions, but risk of cognitive 
impairment is an equally important concern in older adults. Current ASCVD risk 
prediction models were derived in younger adults and do not include holistic 
measures of health or predict cognitive impairment.
METHODS: We utilized data from the Framingham, Framingham Offspring, CHS 
(Cardiovascular Health Study), and ARIC (Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities) 
cohorts to derive and validate 2 Selective Functional Prediction models to 
estimate an older person's (aged ≥75 years) risk within 5 years of developing 
incident: (1) cognitive impairment; and (2) ASCVD, while accounting for the 
competing risk of death. Variable selection, including functional status, was 
based on the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator method. The 
cognitive impairment (N=3466) and ASCVD (N=4403) model populations were split 
into derivation and validation cohorts with external validation, then performed 
in MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
RESULTS: In the derivation and external validation cohorts (median age, 
79 years), 579 (16.7%) and 67 (15.3%) participants developed incident cognitive 
impairment, respectively; 748 (17.0%) and 80 (8.4%), respectively, experienced 
an ASCVD event. The cognitive impairment model (baseline Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), atrial fibrillation, antidepressant use, mobility 
impairment, and dependence for grocery shopping) had good discrimination in the 
internal and external validation cohorts (C index 0.75 and 0.73, respectively). 
The ASCVD model (employment status, MMSE, aspirin, lipid-lowering medications, 
blood pressure medications, systolic blood pressure, general health status, 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, creatinine, and mobility 
impairment) had satisfactory discrimination (C index 0.67) on internal 
validation and outperformed the pooled cohort equations, but had modest 
discrimination (C index 0.59) on external validation. Although both models were 
well calibrated in the internal validation cohorts, they overpredicted risk in 
the external validation cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate prediction of an older person's risk of developing 
cognitive impairment is possible, but predicting future ASCVD events remains 
more challenging.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.124.038949
PMCID: PMC12229195
PMID: 40401627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Nanna reports consulting from Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, and HeartFlow, Inc. Dr Peterson receives research support from Amgen, 
Bristol Myer Squibb, Janssen, and Esperion; serves on Scientific Advisory Boards 
for Novartis, Pfizer, Novo Nordisk, and Bayer; and is a consultant for Cerner, 
Inc. Dr Navar has received funding for research to her institution from BMS, 
Esperion, Amgen, and Janssen, and honoraria and consulting fees from Cerner, 
Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Novartis, BI, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Janssen, and New 
Amsterdam. Dr Colantonio receives research support from Amgen. Dr Goyal receives 
personal fees from Agepha Pharma, Akros Pharma, Axon therapies, Bayer HealthCare 
Pharmaceuticals, and Sensorum Health. The remaining authors have no disclosures 
to report.


79. J Thorac Dis. 2025 Apr 30;17(4):2576-2593. doi: 10.21037/jtd-2025-590. Epub
2025  Apr 27.

Identification of potential therapeutic drug targets for sepsis by combining the 
human plasma proteome and genome: a Mendelian randomization study.

Zhou W(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Lin Z(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Deng H(#)(2)(3)(4), Jin T(2)(4), 
Zheng L(2)(4), Chen Y(2)(4), Yang H(2)(4), Lv X(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology (Shanghai Jiao Tong University), Ministry of 
Education, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Institute of Acupuncture and Anesthesia, Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Currently, sepsis has an extremely high mortality rate and no 
specific treatment. Mendelian Randomization (MR) can utilize genetic variants as 
instrumental variables (IVs) to infer causal relationships between protein 
biomarkers and sepsis. We conducted a proteome-wide MR study to identify 
biological markers and therapeutic targets associated with sepsis.
METHODS: The protein quantitative trait locus (pQTL) were analyzed using two 
data sources: 734 proteins from Zheng et al.; and 4,907 proteins from the deCODE 
database. The causal relationship between the candidate proteins and sepsis was 
then verified by a two-sample MR analysis, colocalization analysis, and summary 
data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis. A protein-protein interaction 
(PPI) analysis, transcriptome difference analysis, single-cell expression 
analysis, and druggability assessment were also performed to detect specific 
cell types and rank therapeutic targets.
RESULTS: Elevated levels of CD33 [odds ratio (OR) 1.04, 95% confidence interval 
(CI): 1.02-1.05, P=0.006] and LY9 (OR 1.10, 95% CI: 1.05-1.15, P=0.01) were 
associated with an increased risk of sepsis, which were considered convincing 
evidence. CD33 is predominantly seen in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), and relevant related drugs are currently in 
development. While LY9 is predominantly seen in multiple sclerosis, but 
information on its related drugs is lacking. Both proteins may be potential 
targets for sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified several protein biomarkers associated with 
the risk of sepsis, provided novel insights into the etiology of sepsis, and 
identified promising targets (CD33 and LY9) for the development of therapeutic 
drugs for sepsis.

Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd-2025-590
PMCID: PMC12090138
PMID: 40400956

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://jtd.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/jtd-2025-590/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


80. Am J Stem Cells. 2025 Apr 15;14(1):1-13. doi: 10.62347/YGYM4976. eCollection 
2025.

Investigating nanoparticle's utilization in stem cell therapy for neurological 
disorders.

Aziz S(1), Anbreen S(2), Shahzad S(1), Ahmed MS(3), Sharma V(4), Yang J(5), Ali 
L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, International Islamic University 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology,Quaid I Azam University Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Medical Sciences 
(NUMS) Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Freiburg Freiburg, 
Germany.
(5)Wuhan Institute of Biological Products Co., Ltd. Wuhan, Hubei, China.

Stem cell therapy is a promising area of regenerative medicine, offering 
potential treatments for various life-threatening disorders. Stem cells are 
classified based on their differentiation potential into totipotent, 
pluripotent, and multipotent stem cells. Among them, mesenchymal stem cells 
(MSCs) are widely used in regenerative medicine due to their tissue regeneration 
capabilities and ability to differentiate into multiple cell types. Stem cells 
are being explored for treating neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson's, 
Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). These 
conditions result from progressive neuronal degeneration, leading to 
irreversible damage. Challenges such as cell survival, immune rejection, tumor 
formation, and ethical concerns related to embryonic stem cells need to be 
addressed. Nanotechnology is emerging as a tool for enhancing stem cell therapy, 
improving targeted delivery and effectiveness. Nanoparticles possess the ability 
to create microenvironments as substrates, facilitate targeted administration, 
and enable real-time, precise imaging of stem cells. This review explores the 
integration of stem cells and nanotechnology as regenerative medicine tool for 
neurodegenerative disease treatment, analyzing current strategies and 
therapeutic approaches. Integrating nanotechnology with stem cell therapy may 
significantly improve targeted delivery and enhance regenerative outcomes for 
neurodegenerative disorders.

AJSC Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/YGYM4976
PMCID: PMC12089827
PMID: 40400898

Conflict of interest statement: None.


81. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):523-526. doi: 10.1177/13872877251343315.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Epistatic effects of immunoglobulin KM (κ marker) allotypes and APOE ε4 allele 
on the risk of Alzheimer's disease.

Pandey JP(1), Kimball C(1), Nietert PJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Immunology, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, SC, USA.

We investigated whether immunoglobulin KM (κ marker) allotypes were associated 
with Alzheimer's disease (AD) individually and/or epistatically with APOE ε4, 
the strongest known genetic susceptibility factor for the disease. Results 
showed a significant (p = 0.01) interaction between KM and APOE ε4. In KM 3/3 
homozygotes, APOE ε4 was strongly associated with AD (OR = 8.3); however, in 
non-KM 3/3 subjects, the association between APOE ε4 and AD was markedly lower 
(OR = 0.9) and non-significant. If confirmed, these results may identify a 
subgroup of the population with a markedly higher risk of developing AD, who 
might require a different preventive/treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251343315
PMID: 40400343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Psychiatriki. 2025 Jul 2;36(2):97-100. doi: 10.22365/jpsych.2025.012. Epub
2025  May 14.

Recent advances in the detection and management of motor dysfunction in 
Alzheimer's disease.

[Article in English, Greek, Modern]

Marogianni C(1), Siokas V(2), Dardiotis E(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurologist, PhDc.
(2)Assistant Professor of Neurology.
(3)Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology, University Hospital of 
Larissa, University of Thessaly.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
characterized by cognitive decline. However, there is growing recognition of the 
significant impact of motor dysfunction in individuals affected by AD. These 
motor impairments contribute substantially to functional decline, reduced 
quality of life, and increased caregiver burden in AD patients.1 Current 
research efforts are increasingly focused on identifying motor dysfunction as a 
potential early marker in the progression of AD. The temporal relationship 
between motor and cognitive decline is under intense investigation, with studies 
suggesting that subtle motor changes, such as gait and balance disturbances or 
slowed walking speed, may precede detectable cognitive impairment by several 
years.2 Specifically, research indicates that gait speed predicts a decline in 
processing speed and visuospatial abilities, and in ApoE4 carriers, it also 
predicts a memory decline.3 One study found that increased amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
deposition is associated with reduced gait speed, muscle strength, and balance 
in cognitively impaired older adults.4 Emerging evidence strongly supports the 
inclusion of motor function assessments, particularly gait analysis, in the 
early detection and risk stratification of AD. This could enable earlier 
interventions and potentially lead to improved disease management. Technological 
advancements provide increasingly sophisticated non-invasive methods for 
detecting motor impairments in AD, potentially enabling earlier and more 
accurate diagnoses. Digital tools and applications-including smartphone-based 
assessments and virtual reality platforms-are being explored for objective and 
quantitative evaluation of mobility. These digital measures offer the potential 
for longitudinal data collection and the detection of subtle changes in motor 
function over time.5 Digital biomarkers provide the advantage of frequent, 
objective monitoring in real-world settings, potentially capturing early motor 
changes that may be missed by traditional clinical evaluations.6 Nonetheless, 
challenges remain regarding validation, standardization, and the influence of 
variables such as demographics and disease stage. Wearable devices offer the 
potential for continuous, non-invasive monitoring of motor behavior, revealing 
subtle changes indicative of early AD. However, interpreting data from these 
devices requires careful consideration and further validation in larger studies. 
Additionally, recent applications of MRI, PET, and other neuroimaging techniques 
are being examined to detect brain changes related to motor dysfunction in AD. 
Advanced MRI techniques, such as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), are used to 
assess white matter integrity along motor pathways, while molecular PET imaging 
can visualize amyloid and tau pathology in brain regions associated with motor 
control.7 Of note, tau pathology in higher motor regions has been significantly 
associated with cognitive decline. Advanced neuroimaging is essential for 
visualizing structural and functional brain changes linked to AD, including 
those that impact motor control.8 These methods may assist in early diagnosis, 
differential diagnosis from other dementias, and monitoring disease progression. 
Current therapeutic approaches to managing motor dysfunction in AD include both 
pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. Clinical trials 
specifically targeting motor symptoms in AD with pharmacological treatments are 
limited. Management typically relies on drugs primarily aimed at cognitive 
symptoms, which may have secondary benefits on motor function. Cholinesterase 
inhibitors (donepezil, rivastigmine) and memantine, which are approved for 
cognitive symptoms, have shown mild effects on motor function (e.g., donepezil 
restores mitochondrial respiratory function in skeletal muscles).9 Emerging 
disease-modifying therapies targeting amyloid and tau, and their potential 
indirect effects on motor function, are under investigation. Non-pharmacological 
interventions, particularly physical therapy tailored to improve balance, gait, 
and muscle strength, play a key role in managing motor symptoms and enhancing 
functional independence and safety. Physical activity can improve brain function 
and memory and may delay functional decline. Combined training that integrates 
motor and cognitive exercises (dual-task training) may provide additional 
benefits. Music therapy has also been shown to positively influence cognitive 
status, emotional well-being, and quality of life in older adults with 
early-stage dementia.10 Motor impairments are increasingly recognized as early 
markers of disease progression and critical targets in the comprehensive care of 
AD. Improving mobility, balance, and functional independence may result in 
greater patients' autonomy and reduced physical and emotional strain on 
caregivers.

DOI: 10.22365/jpsych.2025.012
PMID: 40400272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 21;17(1):111. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01751-5.

Diagnostic performance of actigraphy in Alzheimer's disease using a machine 
learning classifier - a cross-sectional memory clinic study.

Gramkow MH(1), Brink-Kjær A(2)(3), Clemmensen FK(4), Sjælland NS(4), Waldemar 
G(4)(5), Jennum P(3)(5), Hasselbalch SG(4)(5), Frederiksen KS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Inge Lehmans Vej 8, Copenhagen, DK-2100, 
Denmark. mathias.holsey.gramkow@regionh.dk.
(2)Department of Health Technology, Technical University of Denmark, Kongens 
Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Danish Center for Sleep Medicine, 
Copenhagen University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Movement patterns, activity levels and circadian rhythm are altered 
in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can be assessed by actigraphy using wearable 
sensors. We aimed to determine the diagnostic performance of actigraphy in AD in 
a memory clinic population by using a machine-learning classifier.
METHODS: In our single-center cross-sectional study, 70 patients with AD 
(MCI-moderate dementia), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) (N = 29) and 
cerebrovascular disease (CVD) (N = 23), and 48 elderly healthy controls were 
included. Participants underwent actigraphy at home using two body-worn sensors 
(SENS Motion®) for 1 week. We derived movement patterns (walking, running, 
resting, etc.) from raw accelerometry data using a proprietary algorithm. By 
evaluating the movement patterns during day and nighttime, we calculated 510 
activity-related features, including robustness and fragmentation of the 
circadian rhythm. These features were used to train a machine learning (ML) 
classifier using logistic regression. We evaluated the performance of our 
classifier by assessing the accuracy and precision of predictions.
RESULTS: We found that movement patterns as well as the robustness and 
fragmentation of the circadian rhythm differed significantly between groups. 
During the daytime, patients with AD performed less moderate activity and walked 
less than the healthy group. While we achieved a modest accuracy of 68.8% for 
differentiating AD and healthy, the performance was highest (accuracy: 80-89%; 
precision: 69-84%) when ML was applied to actigraphy data to differentiate 
dementia etiologies (AD vs. DLB + AD vs. CVD).
CONCLUSION: Actigraphy accurately identifies different dementia etiologies and 
could serve as a supplement to diagnostic investigations in patients with 
suspected AD for differential diagnostic purposes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01751-5
PMCID: PMC12374425
PMID: 40399918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Human ethics statement and consent 
to participate: The Scientific Ethics Committees for the Capital Region of 
Denmark (file number: H-21045068) gave permission to conduct the study before it 
was initiated. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki. All participants gave informed written and oral consent to 
participate. Competing interests: Kristian Steen Frederiksen is Editor-In-Chief 
at Alzheimer’s Research and Therapy.


84. Mol Cell Biochem. 2025 Sep;480(9):5123-5139. doi: 10.1007/s11010-025-05310-2.
 Epub 2025 May 21.

Disease-modifying effect of donepezil on APP/PS1 mice at different stages of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Zueva I(1), Belyaev G(2), Petrov K(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry, Federal Research Center 
"Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences", Kazan, Russia. 
zueva.irina.vladimirovna@gmail.com.
(2)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry, Federal Research Center 
"Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences", Kazan, Russia.
(3)Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology, Kazan Federal University, 
Kazan, Russia.

Despite Alzheimer's disease (AD) representing a significant global health 
concern, disease-modifying therapeutic options remain elusive. The use of animal 
models of the disease to develop drugs intended for the treatment of AD does not 
always predict their efficacy in clinical trials. Our research demonstrates the 
benefits of a drug-withdrawal approach to screening AD-modifying compounds, 
focussing on β-amyloid (Aβ)-related pathological changes in APP/PS1 transgenic 
mice at different stages of the disease. To assess the efficacy of this 
approach, we examined the AD-modifying effect of donepezil as a reference drug. 
A significant cognitive decline exhibited by APP/PS1 transgenic mice from 
8.4 months of age was accompanied by progressive accumulation of Aβ plaques, 
decreased synaptophysin and vesicular acetylcholine transporter 
immunoexpression. Donepezil had a disease-modifying effect, slowing the 
deterioration of all the pathological markers studied when treatment was started 
in a pre-symptomatic stage of AD. However, in the group of mice with advanced 
stage of AD, such disease-modifying effects were not evident.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-025-05310-2
PMID: 40399637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
have no relevant financial and non-financial interests to disclose. Ethical 
approval: The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki 
and was approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of FRC Kazan Scientific 
Center of RAS (Protocol No. 9 from 4 December 2024).


85. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Sep;22(5):e00610. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00610. 
Epub 2025 May 20.

Discovery of an APP-selective BACE1 inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease.

Campagna J(1), Jagodzinska B(1), Wi D(1), Zhu C(1), Lee J(1), Cohn W(1), Jun 
M(1), Elias C(1), Padder S(1), Descamps O(2), Peters-Libeu C(2), Zhang Q(2), 
Gorostiza O(2), Poksay K(2), Spilman P(1), Bredesen D(3), John V(4).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Lab (DDL), Department of Neurology, Easton Center for 
Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), CA, 90095, USA.
(2)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA, 94945, USA.
(3)Drug Discovery Lab (DDL), Department of Neurology, Easton Center for 
Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), CA, 90095, USA; Buck Institute for 
Research on Aging, Novato, CA, 94945, USA.
(4)Drug Discovery Lab (DDL), Department of Neurology, Easton Center for 
Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), CA, 90095, USA. Electronic 
address: vjohn@mednet.ucla.edu.

Inhibition of amyloid precursor protein (APP) beta-site cleaving enzyme 1 
(BACE1) has been a target for Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapeutic development. 
Here, we report our identification of APP-selective BACE1 (ASBI) inhibitors that 
are selective for APP as the substrate and BACE1 as the target enzyme. A known 
fluoro aminohydantoin (FAH) inhibitor compound was identified by screening a 
compound library for inhibition of BACE1 cleavage of a maltose binding protein 
(MBP)-conjugated-APPC125 substrate followed by optimization and IC50 
determination using the P5-P5' activity assay. Optimization of the screening hit 
led to candidate FAH65, which displays selectivity for inhibition of APP 
cleavage with little activity against other BACE1 substrates neuregulin 1 (NRG1) 
or p-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL1). FAH65 shows little inhibitory 
activity against other aspartyl proteases cathepsin D (Cat D) and BACE2. FAH65 
reduces BACE1 cleavage products soluble APPβ (sAPPβ) and the β C-terminal 
fragment (βCTF), as well as amyloid-β (Aβ) 1-40 and 1-42, both in vitro in cells 
and in vivo in an animal model of AD. In a murine model of AD, FAH65 improved 
the discrimination score in the Novel Object Recognition (NOR) memory testing 
paradigm. The active enantiomer of racemate FAH65, FAH65E(-), displays good 
brain-penetrance and target engagement, meriting further pre-clinical 
development as an ASBI that may reduce Aβ levels and overcome the deleterious 
effects of the non-selective BACE1 inhibitors that have failed in the clinic. 
FAH65E(-) has the potential to be a first-in-class oral therapy that could be 
used in conjunction with an approved anti-Aβ antibody therapy for AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00610
PMCID: PMC12491701
PMID: 40399225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Varghese John's Lab reports 
financial support was provided by NantNeuro LLC. Varghese John has patent 
pending to UCLA. The other authors declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


86. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2025 Jun;48(6):104546. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2025.104546. Epub
2025  May 20.

[Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) and the (non-glaucomatous) 
optic nerve].

[Article in French]

Merle H(1), Pierre M(2), Jean-Charles A(2).

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, centre hospitalier universitaire de Martinique, 
Fort-de-France, Martinique; EA4537, Inserm CIC 1424, université des Antilles, 
Fort-de-France, Martinique. Electronic address: harold.merle@chu-martinique.fr.
(2)Service d'ophtalmologie, centre hospitalier universitaire de Martinique, 
Fort-de-France, Martinique.

Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) is a non-invasive, reliable, 
repeatable exam. As opposed to fluorescein angiography, OCTA allows analysis of 
the capillary bed without interference from diffusion phenomena. It is now 
widely used for both the diagnosis and ongoing care of retinal and choroidal 
diseases. However, its use is still limited for evaluation of the optic nerve. 
Recently, new data quantification software can add value to macular and 
papillary vascularization images. This review details OCTA results in the most 
important optic nerve conditions, whether acquired or congenital, other than 
glaucoma. In most cases, OCTA shows modifications of the retinal or papillary 
vascularization systematically impacting retinal nerve fibers, ganglion cells 
layer and visual acuity. OCTA contributes to a better understanding of the 
pathophysiology of optic nerve disease without being able to specify yet whether 
the modifications cause or are caused by the disease. OCTA is particularly 
useful for neuro-ophthalmology. In addition to detection and diagnosis, OCTA can 
be used for follow-up and monitoring of treatment response.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2025.104546
PMID: 40398241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Déclaration de liens d’intérêts Les auteurs 
déclarent ne pas avoir de liens d’intérêts.


87. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 May 27;122(21):e2417224122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2417224122. Epub 2025 May 21.

Inhibiting 15-PGDH blocks blood-brain barrier deterioration and protects mice 
from Alzheimer's disease and traumatic brain injury.

Koh Y(#)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Vázquez-Rosa E(#)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Gao F(#)(6), Li H(7), 
Chakraborty S(8), Tripathi SJ(8), Barker S(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Bud Z(1)(2)(3)(4)(9), 
Bangalore A(1)(2)(4)(10), Kandjoze UP(1)(2)(4)(11), León-Alvarado 
RA(1)(2)(4)(11), Sridharan PS(1)(2)(3)(4)(10), Cordova BA(7), Yu 
Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(12), Hyung J(1)(2)(4), Fang H(1)(2)(4)(13)(14), Singh S(7)(15), 
Katabathula R(7), LaFramboise T(6)(7), Kasturi L(16), Lutterbaugh J(16), Beard 
L(16), Cordova E(16), Cintrón-Pérez CJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Franke K(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Fragoso MF(7), Miller E(1)(2)(3)(4)(10), Indrakumar V(1)(2)(10), Noel 
KL(1)(2)(10), Dhar M(1)(2)(3)(4), Ajroud K(17)(18), Zamudio C(18), Lopes 
FBTP(19)(20), Bambakidis E(1)(2)(3)(4)(21), Zhu X(5), Wilson B(3)(22), Flanagan 
ME(17)(23), Gefen T(17)(24), Fujioka H(25), Fink SP(7), Desai AB(5)(7), Dawson 
D(5)(7), Williams NS(26), Kim YK(27), Ready JM(26), Paul BD(8)(28)(29)(30), Shin 
MK(1)(2)(3)(4)(27)(31), Markowitz SD(7)(16)(32), Pieper AA(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(2)Brain Health Medicines Center, Harrington Discovery Institute, University 
Hospitals, Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(3)Geriatric Psychiatry, Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Louis 
Stokes Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(4)Institute for Transformative Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(5)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44106.
(6)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences School of Medicine, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(7)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH 44106.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Molecular Sciences, School of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205.
(9)Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44106.
(10)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(11)Department of Psychology, Neuroscience Program Earlham College, Richmond, IN 
47374.
(12)University of Toledo College of Medicine and Life Sciences, Toledo, OH 
43606.
(13)Hathaway Brown School, Shaker Heights, OH 44122.
(14)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139.
(15)Center for Immunotherapy and Precision Immuno-Oncology, Lerner Research 
Institute Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195.
(16)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44106.
(17)Mesulam Center for Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611.
(18)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611.
(19)Department of Nutrition, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(20)Center for Proteomics and Bioinformatics, School of Medicine, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(21)Northwestern University Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, Chicago, IL 
60208.
(22)Department of Infectious Diseases and HIV Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(23)Department of Pathology, Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, 
TX 78229.
(24)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611.
(25)Cryo-Electron Microscopy Core Case, School of Medicine, Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44016.
(26)Department of Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX 75390.
(27)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.
(28)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, School of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205.
(29)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205.
(30)Lieber Institute for Brain Development, Baltimore, MD 21205.
(31)Natural Products Research Institute, College of Pharmacy, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.
(32)Seidman Cancer Center, University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, 
Cleveland, OH 44106.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Jul 8;122(27):e2511399122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2511399122.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI) are currently 
untreatable neurodegenerative disorders afflicting millions of people worldwide. 
These conditions are pathologically related, and TBI is one of the greatest risk 
factors for AD. Although blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption drives progression 
of both AD and TBI, strategies to preserve BBB integrity have been hindered by 
lack of actionable targets. Here, we identify 15-hydroxyprostaglandin 
dehydrogenase (15-PGDH), an enzyme that catabolizes eicosanoids and other 
anti-inflammatory mediators, as a therapeutic candidate that protects the BBB. 
We demonstrate that 15-PGDH is enriched in BBB-associated myeloid cells and 
becomes markedly elevated in human and mouse models of AD and TBI, as well as 
aging, another major risk factor for AD. Pathological increase in 15-PGDH 
correlates with pronounced oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and 
neurodegeneration, alongside profound BBB structural degeneration characterized 
by astrocytic endfeet swelling and functional impairment. Pharmacologic 
inhibition or genetic reduction of 15-PGDH in AD and TBI models strikingly 
mitigates oxidative damage, suppresses neuroinflammation, and restores BBB 
integrity. Most notably, inhibiting 15-PGDH not only halts neurodegeneration but 
also preserves cognitive function at levels indistinguishable from healthy 
controls. Remarkably, these neuroprotective effects in AD are achieved without 
affecting amyloid pathology, underscoring a noncanonical mechanism for treating 
AD. In a murine microglia cell line exposed to amyloid beta oligomer, major 
protection was demonstrated by multiple anti-inflammatory substrates that 
15-PGDH degrades. Thus, our findings position 15-PGDH inhibition as a 
broad-spectrum strategy to protect the BBB and thereby preserve brain health and 
cognition in AD and TBI.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2417224122
PMCID: PMC12130856
PMID: 40397680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:Y.K., E.V.-R., 
M.-K.S., J.M.R., N.S.W., S.D.M., and A.A.P. hold (+)-SW033291-related patents, 
some of which have been licensed and/or optioned to Amgen.


88. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2025 Jul 1;20(4):337-343. doi:
10.1097/COH.0000000000000951.  Epub 2025 May 16.

Update on neurological complications of HIV.

Diaz MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School 
of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The prevalence of neurological complications among people 
with HIV (PWH) is expected to increase as PWH live longer due to increased 
access to antiretroviral treatment (ART). This review provides updates to the 
understanding of the neurological sequelae, including neurocognitive impairment, 
neuropathy, neurological opportunistic infections, and others, which are crucial 
for improving care and outcomes of PWH.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent literature highlights several key themes: the 
pathophysiology of HIV-related neuronal damage involving HIV proteins (gp120, 
Nef) and neuroinflammation; the role of aging in exacerbating neurological 
complications; the high prevalence of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders 
(HAND) and Alzheimer's disease-related dementias (AD/ADRD) among PWH; the 
importance of neurocognitive screening tools like IHDS and MoCA; and the 
identification of biomarkers and neuroimaging techniques for early detection and 
monitoring of HAND.
SUMMARY: The findings highlight the need for comprehensive healthcare strategies 
to manage neurological complications in PWH, including targeted interventions 
for high-risk groups, improved diagnostic tools, and tailored treatments. It is 
important for clinicians and researchers to develop effective approaches to 
mitigate the impact of HIV on brain health and improve quality of life for PWH.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000951
PMCID: PMC12414629
PMID: 40397601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest There are no conflicts of 
interest.


89. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother. 2025 Aug 12;11(5):412-421. doi: 
10.1093/ehjcvp/pvaf024.

Association between sacubitril/valsartan and risk of dementia in patients with 
heart failure: a nationwide cohort study.

Jung K(1), Kim JH(1)(2), Bea S(2)(3), Ko HY(2), You SC(4), Choi EK(5), Lee S(6), 
Lim M(7), Kim GJ(8), Kang DY(9), Shin JY(1)(2)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biohealth Regulatory Science, Sungkyunkwan University, 2066 
Seobu-ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 16419, South Korea.
(3)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02120, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Systems Informatics, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul 03722, South Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine and Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul 03080, South Korea.
(6)Department of Computer Engineering, Gachon University, Seongnam 13120, South 
Korea.
(7)Department of IT Convergence Engineering, Gachon University, Seongnam 13120, 
South Korea.
(8)Asan Institute for Life Sciences, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, South 
Korea.
(9)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ulsan University Hospital, Ulsan 44033, 
South Korea.
(10)Department of Clinical Research Design & Evaluation, Samsung Advanced 
Institute for Health Sciences & Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University, 
Seoul 06355, South Korea.

AIMS: To evaluate the risk of incident dementia associated with 
sacubitril/valsartan in patients with heart failure (HF) in South Korea.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the 
National Health Insurance Database in South Korea. Patients diagnosed with HF 
and prescribed either sacubitril/valsartan or angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors (ACEIs)/angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) within 90 days of their 
first HF diagnosis between October 2017 and December 2020 were included. The 
primary outcome was incident dementia, categorized into Alzheimer's dementia and 
vascular dementia. Follow-up began after 1 year from the prescription date, to 
accommodate dementia onset latency, until the earliest occurrence of dementia, 
death, or end of study period (March 2023). After 1:4 propensity score matching, 
the hazard ratio (HR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) for dementia was 
estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model. Among 7085 
sacubitril/valsartan users and 359 153 ACEI/ARB users, 6930 sacubitril/valsartan 
users [mean (SD) age, 61.7 (14.6) years; 70.9% male] were matched on propensity 
score to 27 720 ACEI/ARB users [mean (SD) age, 61.7 (15.8) years; 71.1% male]. 
During a mean follow-up of 2.2 and 2.3 years, dementia occurred in 200 (2.9%) 
sacubitril/valsartan users and 980 (3.5%) ACEI/ARB users, respectively. 
Sacubitril/valsartan showed a 16% lower risk of dementia compared with ACEI/ARB 
(HR 0.84; 95% CI 0.72-0.98). However, of 1180 cases of incident dementia, 1079 
(91.4%) were categorized as Alzheimer's dementia and statistical significance 
was not reached in this main group.
CONCLUSION: Despite plausible biological mechanisms, no association between 
sacubitril/valsartan and an increased risk of dementia was observed in patients 
with HF.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjcvp/pvaf024
PMCID: PMC12343040
PMID: 40397431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):410-426. doi: 10.1177/13872877251344188.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Curcumin's multi-target mechanisms in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and 
creative modification techniques.

Meng X(1), Gong Y(2), Xiao F(2), Cao Z(2), Zhuang Z(2), Yi X(1), Wang J(1), Feng 
R(1), Gong C(1), Ni P(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Translational Medicine of Ministry of Education & 
Key Laboratory of Brain Science Research and Transformation in Tropical 
Environment of Hainan Province, School of Basic Medicine and Life Sciences, 
Hainan Medical University, Haikou, Hainan, China.
(2)Hainan General Hospital, Hainan Medical University, Haikou, Hainan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a well-established neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by memory impairment, cognitive dysfunction, and behavioral 
disturbances. With the global population aging, the prevalence of AD continues 
to rise, presenting significant challenges to both society and healthcare 
systems. Curcumin, a polyphenolic compound derived from turmeric rhizomes, has 
demonstrated considerable potential in AD treatment due to its 
anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties. However, its 
clinical application remains constrained by chemical instability, poor water 
solubility, rapid metabolism, and accelerated elimination. To overcome these 
limitations, various curcumin derivatives have been synthesized, and combination 
therapy strategies have been explored. This review examines the potential 
mechanisms through which curcumin may exert therapeutic effects in AD, including 
the inhibition of neuroinflammation, regulation of tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation, modulation of amyloid-β peptides, and provision of 
antioxidant benefits. Additionally, the advantages of curcumin derivatives and 
combination therapy approaches are discussed, offering novel perspectives and 
promising strategies for AD treatment. It is anticipated that advancements in 
drug design and therapeutic approaches will contribute to the development of 
more effective treatment options for AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251344188
PMID: 40397414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


91. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):574-588. doi: 10.1177/13872877251344222.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Japan-multimodal intervention trial for the prevention of dementia in older 
people with lifestyle-related diseases: A community-based, 18-month, randomized 
controlled trial.

Ide K(1), Mizushima S(2), Saito K(3), Suzuki H(4), Chiba Y(1)(5), Abe K(1), 
Yoshimi A(1), Hishimoto A(6), Yamanaka T(7), Sakurai T(8), Arai H(8), Taguri 
M(9), Suzuki S(10)(11), Odawara T(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yokohama City University School of Medicine, 
Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Japan.
(2)Yokohama City University School of Medicine, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Japan.
(3)School of Child Education, Shukutoku University, Miyoshi-machi, Iruma-gun, 
Saitama, Japan.
(4)Well Aging Division, SOMPO Care Inc., Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Sekiaikai Yokohama Maioka Hospital, Totsuka-ku, Yokohama, Japan.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Chuo-ku, Kobe, Japan.
(7)Yokohama Asahi Central General Hospital, Asahi-ku, Yokohama, Japan.
(8)National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu City, Aichi Prefecture, 
Japan.
(9)Department of Health Data Science, Tokyo Medical University, Shinjuku-ku, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(10)Department of Data Science, Graduate School of Data Science, Yokohama City 
University, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Japan.
(11)Data Intelligence Department, Global DX, Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd, 
Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(12)Health Management Center, Yokohama City University, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, 
Japan.

BackgroundThe prevalence of Alzheimer's disease is increasing in Japan, 
highlighting the need to establish evidence-based strategies for its 
prevention.ObjectiveWe aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a multimodal 
community-based intervention for Japanese older people with lifestyle-related 
diseases and to identify challenges in implementing such interventions to 
prevent dementia in local communities.MethodsAn 18-month randomized controlled 
trial was conducted among individuals aged 65-85 years with lifestyle-related 
diseases (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, overweight/underweight, 
smoking), residing in a single apartment complex. Participants were randomly 
assigned to a multimodal intervention group (group-based physical exercise, 
nutritional guidance, management of lifestyle-related diseases, and cognitive 
training) or a control group. The primary outcome was the change in the 
composite score derived from seven neuropsychological tests. The trial was 
registered (UMIN000041887: September 24, 2020).ResultsOf 224 screened 
individuals, 198 were randomized (99 in each group), and 175 (88.4%) completed 
the 18-month assessment. There was no significant difference between the 
intervention and control groups in the primary outcome (change in composite test 
score: 0.25; 95% confidence interval 0.16 to 0.33 versus 0.29; 95% confidence 
interval 0.20 to 0.38, respectively; p = 0.463). However, a subgroup analysis of 
participants with mild cognitive impairment showed a significant intervention 
effect on changes in logical memory, for both immediate (p = 0.041) and delayed 
recall tasks (p = 0.043).ConclusionsThis multimodal intervention program 
demonstrated no effectiveness in mitigating cognitive decline. Further research 
is needed to develop more effective strategies and to better define target 
populations.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251344222
PMID: 40397393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Shoko Suzuki is an 
employee of Daiichi Sankyo and has worked for the company since April 2024. The 
remaining authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


92. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):484-489. doi: 10.1177/13872877251343310.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Health economic assessment of technologies for preventing cognitive impairment 
in elderly people living at home: The case of the digital tablet combined with 
human support.

Rimlawi C(1), Sawadogo AR(1), Kehoua G(1), Gayot C(1)(2)(3), Tchalla A(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire VieSanté - UR 24134 (Vieillissement, Fragilité, Prévention, 
e-Santé), Institut OMEGA HEALTH, Université de Limoges, Limoges, France.
(2)Pôle HU Gérontologie Clinique, CHU de Limoges, Limoges, France.
(3)Pôle HU Gérontologie Clinique, Unité de Recherche Clinique et d'Innovation 
(URCI) en Gérontologie, CHU de Limoges, Limoges, France.

BackgroundThe study addresses the challenges of cognitive impairment in an aging 
population, focusing on the health economic assessment of technologies used by 
community-dwelling older adults to support cognitive function.ObjectiveTo 
conduct a systematic review of economic evaluations of digital tablets combined 
with human support in preventing cognitive impairment in elderly people living 
at home.MethodsThe following databases were used: PubMed, Scopus, Science 
Direct, Cochrane library. A total of 45 articles from 2000 to 2024 were 
identified and screened following the PRISMA guidelines.ResultsOne protocol 
study and one randomized control trial were included.ConclusionsThe economic 
evaluation of tablet-based digital intervention for older adults with cognitive 
impairments is underexplored, necessitating broader research on technology use 
in this area.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251343310
PMID: 40397387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


93. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):518-522. doi: 10.1177/13872877251343313.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Thieves in the delusions of theft in patients with Alzheimer's disease living 
alone: A case series.

Ishimaru D(1)(2), Satake Y(2), Kanemoto H(2)(3), Taomoto D(2), Hotta M(2), 
Nagata Y(2)(4), Katsuki K(2), Ikeda M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Osaka University Hospital, Suita, Osaka, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Health and Counseling Center, Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Division of Occupational Therapy, Department of Rehabilitation, Faculty of 
Health Science, Naragakuen University, Nara-city, Nara, Japan.

This study explored the phenomenology of theft delusions in four female patients 
with Alzheimer's disease (AD) living alone, aiming to understand its 
psychological relevance. Caregivers participated in semi-structured interviews 
to assess delusion phenomenology, while patients were evaluated on their aging 
perceptions and life values. In three cases, the primary persecutor was a family 
member involved in managing finances, whereas the persecutor in the fourth 
patient who managed finances independently was a specific neighbor. Thieves in 
the delusion of theft in patients with AD living alone were likely to be persons 
who helped in the management of money or property.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251343313
PMID: 40397385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


94. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):206-217. doi: 10.1177/13872877251340578.
Epub  2025 May 21.

Associations between dementia symptoms and caregiver and relationship health: A 
prominent role for speech and language.

Levenson RW(1), Merrilees J(2), Henry ML(3), Dronkers NF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)UCSF Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, TX, USA.

BackgroundDementia is a significant public health issue globally. People with 
dementia (PWD) exhibit symptoms in multiple domains (e.g., cognition, emotion, 
motor, speech/language) that can vary in their impact on the caregiver and the 
PWD-caregiver relationship.ObjectiveWe assessed the relative impact of various 
dementia symptoms on caregiver health and well-being and on the PWD-caregiver 
relationship using a broad sampling of PWD symptoms and caregiver/relationship 
outcome measures.MethodsData were analyzed from 54 primary caregivers of PWDs 
who completed seven questionnaires assessing caregiver health and well-being and 
PWD-caregiver relationship quality. An exploratory factor analysis of these 
questionnaires revealed two primary factors: (a) General Distress (anxiety, 
burden, depression, general health, loneliness), and (b) Relationship Quality 
(interpersonal closeness, relationship satisfaction). Caregivers also rated nine 
categories of PWD symptoms (memory, executive functions, speech/language, 
visual/spatial, motor, changes in behavior, sleep, medical/sensory, activities 
of daily living).ResultsGreater caregiver General Distress was associated with 
greater PWD speech/language and sleep symptoms. Lower caregiver Relationship 
Quality was associated (at trend, p < 0.10, levels) with greater PWD 
speech/language and activities of daily living symptoms. Correlations with the 
seven individual caregiver outcome measures revealed that speech/language 
symptoms were the most robust predictors (correlated with five measures), 
followed by sleep and activities of daily living symptoms (correlated with two 
measures), and memory, visual/spatial, and motor symptoms (correlated with one 
measure).ConclusionsFindings highlight the profound adverse effects that PWD 
speech and language deficits may have on caregivers and underscore the 
importance of addressing these deficits in dementia care.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251340578
PMCID: PMC12231857
PMID: 40397128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


95. Acta Neurol Taiwan. 2025 Jan 1;34(1):1-12. doi: 10.4103/ANT.ANT_113_0046.
Epub  2025 Mar 28.

Gut Microbiota and Alzheimer Disease.

Huarcaya LRD(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Norbert Wiener University, Lima, Peru.

The hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) include brain dysfunction and the 
buildup of amyloid and tau proteins. The onset of dementia is one of the latter 
symptoms. Imaging diagnostics allowed for the detection of amyloid buildup in 
the brain 10-20 years before the emergence of overt signs of the disease. The 
application of imaging diagnostic techniques allowed for this identification. 
Within the next few decades, the incidence and frequency of this disease are 
expected to reach epidemic proportions unless measures are done to stop or slow 
its growth. However, unless action is taken to slow or stop the disease's 
progression, it will continue to threaten the health of the general public. 
Recently, there has been some speculation that the gut flora might contribute to 
the development of AD. Not only that, but the rapidly expanding ischemia 
etiology is another possible contributor to the issue. Rumor has it that there's 
a network connecting the brain and the stomach called the "gut-brain-microbiota 
axis." The hypothesis is based on this network. Furthermore, a large amount of 
evidence implies that the gut microbiota (GMB) could potentially contribute to 
the onset of AD. It has been suggested that the GMB could play a role in the 
onset of AD. This notion has been bolstered by new studies. It is quite probable 
that this review will address the prospect of a link between the microbiome and 
AD. This concept could be explored as a potential therapy or preventative 
measure. Some techniques that show promise as new treatments for AD include 
changes to the GMB, which can be achieved through dietary changes or positive 
microflora interventions, and changes to microbiological partners and their 
products, like amyloid protein.

Copyright © 2025 Acta Neurologica Taiwanica.

DOI: 10.4103/ANT.ANT_113_0046
PMID: 40396795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. ACS Sens. 2025 Jun 27;10(6):4687-4696. doi: 10.1021/acssensors.5c01153. Epub 
2025 May 21.

Ultrasensitive and Selective Detection of Dopamine Through Substituent-Regulated 
Evolution of Quantum Defects.

Yin T(1), Zhao Y(1), Zhang J(1), Xiao X(1), Huang Y(1), Ke B(2), Huang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Fiber Materials, College of Materials 
Science and Engineering, Donghua University, Shanghai 201620, China.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200127, China.

Accurate detection and analysis of biomolecules like dopamine (DA) are vital for 
monitoring human health, particularly given DA's critical roles in a lot of 
medical disorders such as depression, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, and 
myopia. DA is often found at very low concentrations within certain body fluids, 
making it a challenging yet essential target for detection. This study presents 
an innovative and ultrasensitive detection methodology based on a quantum 
system, characterized by its exceptional sensitivity, selectivity, and 
linearity. By leveraging the unique quantum defect emission from semiconducting 
single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) in the near-infrared II region, our 
approach effectively detects DA with high sensitivity, within the 
physiologically relevant range of nanomolar, and a detection limit as low as 1 
nM. The sensing system maintains performance in phosphate-buffered saline and 
human urine environments. The interaction between aryldiazonium salts and DA 
that generates sp3 defects on the SWCNTs surface, regulated by specific 
substituents on the benzene ring, dictates the sensor's performance, ensuring 
superior selectivity against biologically relevant molecules. These advancements 
hold great potential for early disease detection, prevention, and treatment, 
marking an important advance in the field of biomedical diagnostics and 
nanosensor research.

DOI: 10.1021/acssensors.5c01153
PMID: 40396736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Drug Target. 2025 Jun 9:1-18. doi: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2509287. Online
ahead  of print.

Gold nanoparticles: diagnostic and therapeutic applications in neurodegenerative 
disorders.

Hu X(1)(2)(3), Cheng J(1)(2)(3), Yuan R(4), Zhou Y(4), Rao J(4), Wan Y(4), Li 
Y(5)(6)(7), Zhang X(4), Li R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Basic Medicine Research Innovation Center for Cardiometabolic Diseases, 
Ministry of Education, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(2)Luzhou Municipal Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Vascular Biology, Southwest 
Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(3)Laboratory for Cardiovascular Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology, 
School of Pharmacy, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(4)School of Basic Medical Science, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, 
Sichuan, China.
(5)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, the Affiliated Hospital of 
Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(6)Metabolic Vascular Disease Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Luzhou, 
Sichuan, China.
(7)Sichuan Clinical Research Center for Diabetes and Metabolism, Luzhou, 
Sichuan, China.

Neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs), including Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and prion 
diseases, pose a significant and escalating health challenge in the context of 
an ageing population. Gold nanoparticles (GNPs) have emerged as promising agents 
in the diagnostic and therapeutic realms of NDDs, due to their unique ability to 
enhance drug delivery across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). This paper presents 
a comprehensive review of the application of GNPs in the context of NDDs 
diagnosis and therapy, highlighting their potential to transform patient 
management. Additionally, we systematically address the critical challenges 
associated with the use of GNPs in the treatment and diagnosis of NDDs, focusing 
on pharmacokinetics and metabolism, toxicity, long-term biocompatibility, 
regulatory challenges and cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, we synthesise ongoing 
clinical studies to provide a holistic perspective on the current state of 
research in this field. We also explore the prospective trajectories and 
clinical translational potential of GNPs, which may usher in a new era in the 
treatment of NDDs.

DOI: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2509287
PMID: 40396445


98. Traffic. 2025 Apr;26(4-6):e70009. doi: 10.1111/tra.70009.

A Sensitive and Versatile Cell-Based Assay Combines Luminescence and Trapping 
Approaches to Monitor Unconventional Protein Secretion.

Denus M(1), Filaquier A(1), Fargues W(1), Néel E(1), Stewart SE(2), Colladant 
M(1), Curel T(1), Mezghrani A(3), Marin P(1), Claeysen S(1), Rubinsztein 
DC(4)(5), Parmentier ML(1), Villeneuve J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Functional Genomics (IGF), University of Montpellier, CNRS, 
INSERM, Montpellier, France.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Chemistry, School of Agriculture, Biomedicine 
and Environment, La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Centre de Biologie Structurale (CBS), University of Montpellier, CNRS, 
INSERM, Montpellier, France.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge Institute 
for Medical Research, Cambridge, UK.
(5)UK Dementia Research Institute, Cambridge, UK.

In addition to the conventional endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi secretory 
pathway, alternative routes are increasingly recognized for their critical roles 
in exporting a growing number of secreted factors. These alternative processes, 
collectively referred to as unconventional protein secretion (UcPS), challenge 
traditional views of protein and membrane trafficking. Unlike the 
well-characterized molecular machinery of the conventional secretory pathway, 
the mechanisms underlying UcPS remain poorly understood. Various UcPS pathways 
may involve direct transport of cytosolic proteins across the plasma membrane or 
the incorporation of cargo proteins into intracellular compartments redirected 
for secretion. Identifying the specific chaperones, transporters and fusion 
machinery involved in UcPS cargo recognition, selection and transport is crucial 
to decipher how cargo proteins are selectively or synergistically directed 
through multiple secretory routes. These processes can vary depending on cell 
type and in response to particular stress conditions or cellular demands, 
underscoring the need for standardized tools and methods to study UcPS. Here, we 
combine the sensitivity of split NanoLuc Binary Technology with the versatility 
of the Retention Using Selective Hooks (RUSH) system to develop a 
straightforward and reliable cell-based assay for investigating both 
conventional and unconventional protein secretion. This system allows for the 
identification of intracellular compartments involved in UcPS cargo trafficking. 
Additionally, its sensitivity enabled us to demonstrate that disease-associated 
mutants or variants of Tau and superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) show altered 
secretion via UcPS. Finally, we leveraged this assay to screen for Alzheimer's 
disease risk factors, revealing a functional link between amyloid-beta 
production and Tau UcPS. This robust assay provides a powerful tool for 
increasing our knowledge of protein secretion mechanisms in physiological and 
pathological contexts.

© 2025 The Author(s). Traffic published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tra.70009
PMCID: PMC12093449
PMID: 40396394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: David C. Rubinsztein is a consultant for Drishti 
Discoveries, PAQ Therapeutics, MindRank AI, Retro Biosciences, Alexion Pharma 
International Operations Limited and Nido Biosciences. The other authors declare 
no conflicts of interest.


99. Curr Mol Pharmacol. 2024;17:e18761429381010. doi: 
10.2174/0118761429381010250512060455.

Network Pharmacology and Bioinformatics of Flavonoids from Scutellaria 
baicalensis stems: Mitigating Aβ-Induced Cognitive Impairment in Rats via the 
MEK-ERK-CREB Pathway.

Chen Y(1), Ma S(1), Huo J(2), Ding S(1), Liu Q(1), Li C(1), Yao Y(1), Shang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengde Medical University / Hebei 
Province, Key Research Office of Traditional Chinese Medicine Against Dementia / 
Hebei Province, Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Research and 
Development / Hebei Province, Key Laboratory of Nerve Injury and Repair, 
Chengde, 067000, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Chengde Medical College, 
Chengde067000, China.

INTRODUCTION: This study investigates the effects and mechanisms of Scutellaria 
baicalensis flavonoids (SSF) on passive avoidance learning and memory deficits 
induced by composite amyloid-β proteins (Aβ) via the MEK-ERK-CREB signaling 
pathway in rats based on network pharmacology and bioinformatics.
METHODS: Network pharmacology and bioinformatics identified target pathways. An 
Alzheimer's disease model was induced in male wistar rats using Aβ25-35, AlCl3, 
and RHTGF-β1(referred to as compound Aβ). Memory impairment was confirmed with 
the Morris water maze. Modeled rats were assigned to a control group and three 
SSF-treated groups for 33 days. Passive avoidance learning abilities were 
assessed with a step-down test, and p-crebser133 expression in the hippocampus 
was detected via immunohistochemistry. Real-time qPCR and western blotting 
measured mRNA and protein levels of c-Raf, MEKs, Rsk, and zif268 in the 
hippocampus and cortex.
RESULTS: Pathways such as the calcium signaling pathway, Apelin signaling 
pathway and cAMP signaling pathway were highlighted by KEGG analysis. The model 
had an 83.30% success rate. Model rats showed dry coats and unresponsiveness, 
while SSF treatment improved appearance and behavior. In passive avoidance 
tests, model rats made more errors and had shorter latencies (P < 0.01). They 
also showed decreased p-CREBSer133 and increased c-Raf, Rsk, and P-MEKs levels 
(P < 0.01), with reduced Zif268 (P < 0.01). SSF reversed these effects, 
enhancing p-CREBSer133 and Zif268 while regulating c-Raf, Rsk, and P-MEKs (P < 
0.01).
CONCLUSION: SSF ameliorates learning and memory impairments induced by composite 
Aβ, acting through the MEK-ERK-CREB pathway in rats.

DOI: 10.2174/0118761429381010250512060455
PMID: 40396317


100. Biol Open. 2025 Jun 15;14(6):bio061963. doi: 10.1242/bio.061963. Epub 2025
Jun  10.

A novel 14-3-3θ phosphomimetic mouse model demonstrates social dominance 
defects.

Gannon MA(1), Srikantha T(1), Pattanayak R(1), Kapa N(1), Pathak A(1), Roberts 
AC(1), Stone WJ(1), Scholz K(1), Ekkatine R(1), Yacoubian TA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Center for Neurodegeneration and 
Experimental Therapeutics, Department of Neurology, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.

14-3-3 proteins, particularly the 14-3-3θ isoform, are neuroprotective in 
several models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence for increased 14-3-3θ 
phosphorylation observed in PD and other neurodegenerative diseases points to a 
possible pathogenic role for 14-3-3θ phosphorylation in neurodegenerative 
disease. We recently created a novel conditional knock-in mouse to express the 
14-3-3θ S232D phosphomimetic mutation. After crossing this conditional knock-in 
mouse with the Emx1-Cre mouse in order to induce expression of the S232D 
mutation in the cortex and hippocampus, we evaluated the effect of 14-3-3θ 
phosphorylation on behavior and pathology. These mice demonstrated mild motor 
deficits and reduced social dominance behavior but showed normal cognition and 
anxiety levels compared to Cre control mice. S232D mice did not show any 
α-synuclein or phospho-tau pathology at baseline, and dendritic arborization was 
normal in primary hippocampal cultures from S232D mice. Overall, this mouse 
model is a novel tool that can be used to look at the effect of 14-3-3θ 
phosphorylation at S232 in the context of neurodegenerative disease models.

© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.

DOI: 10.1242/bio.061963
PMCID: PMC12182864
PMID: 40396196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests T.A.Y. has patent #7,919,262 
issued to T.A.Y. The other authors declare no competing or financial interests.