1. Brain Behav. 2025 Aug;15(8):e70753. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70753.

Unveiling the Relationship Between Oral Microbiota and Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Genetic Instrumental Variable Analysis via Mendelian Randomization.

Li Z(1), Kang Y(2), Li S(1), Guo S(3), Zheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, National Center of Gerontology, Institute of 
Geriatric Medicine/Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: The potential relationship between oral microbiota (OM) and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized, but the exact causal 
relationship between them remains uncertain. This study aims to reveal the 
causal relationship between OM and AD.
METHODS: A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) approach was employed to 
examine the association between 594 OM exposures and AD outcomes. Effect 
estimates were derived from external genome-wide association study (GWAS) 
summary statistics, primarily utilizing inverse-variance weighted (IVW) 
analysis. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of the 
findings. In addition, we genetically mapped SNPs corresponding to OM in the MR 
analysis to identify genes that may link OM to AD.
RESULTS: A total of 48 OM exposures exhibited statistically significant 
associations with AD outcomes (p ≤ 0.05). Of these, 30 were identified at the 
genus level, 12 at the species level, and six at the family level. Genetic 
function analyses indicated that OM-related genes are closely linked to the 
regulation of neurobiological functions, supporting a potential role for OM in 
the pathogenesis of AD.
CONCLUSION: The findings presented here provide genetic evidence for a causal 
relationship between OM and AD, offering insights that may guide the future 
development of prevention and treatment strategies targeting OM in the context 
of AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70753
PMCID: PMC12321961
PMID: 40760799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. Brain Behav. 2025 Aug;15(8):e70632. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70632.

Causal Association Between Immune Cell Traits and Risk of Multiple Malignant and 
Nonmalignant CNS Diseases: A Mendelian Randomization and Single-Cell 
Transcriptomic Analysis.

Ke S(1), Yan J(1), Li B(1), Feng X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, Zhengzhou 
University People's Hospital, Henan University People's Hospital, Zhengzhou, 
China.

BACKGROUND: The influence of immune cell traits (ICTs) on the onset of multiple 
brain diseases has been previously investigated; however, it is limited by the 
sample size or colocalization evidence. Besides, the impact remains 
inconclusive.
METHODS: We performed a Mendelian randomization (MR) study to elucidate the 
causal correlation between significant ICTs and diverse brain disorders and 
explored the biomarkers linked to glioblastoma (GBM), a form of solid tumor, by 
integrating expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) and single-cell RNA 
sequencing (scRNA-seq) analyses. The nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) 
method was utilized to reclassify malignant cells into distinct cell states. 
Related functional analyses at the scRNA-seq level were also performed.
RESULTS: We examined 731 ICTs across 13 brain disorders; impacts from these ICTs 
varied a lot across different brain diseases. Such ICTs mainly involved 
T/natural killer (NK) cell activation, B cell differentiation, and myeloid cell 
suppression or activation. Pleiotropy or heterogeneity in current results has 
been checked and excluded via sensitivity analyses. Specifically, colocalization 
analyses demonstrated protective roles of distinct ICTs in T/B/NK cell panels 
for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and GBM, while myeloid and human 
leukocyte antigen (HLA)-associated traits were associated with increased risk of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), and then two memory cell traits were linked to the 
increased risk of major depressive disease (MDD). By NMF, we identified six 
distinct cell states within GBM cells. Furthermore, we established an 
eight-marker glioblastoma risk signature (GBRS) using scRNA-seq and eQTL data, 
with higher GBRS scores observed in the NFkB cluster and EGFR cluster, 
indicating their highlighted aggression among malignant cells. Epigallocatechin 
gallate could be an effective treatment candidate targeting the EGFR cluster via 
markers of SQLE and VCP.
CONCLUSION: Our findings identified causal effects of distinct ICTs on both 
malignant and nonmalignant brain diseases and underscored the pivotal role of 
neuroinflammation in their etiology. With combined evidence from eQTL and 
scRNA-seq, GBM could be better characterized and managed.

© 2025 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70632
PMCID: PMC12321959
PMID: 40760788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70536. doi: 10.1002/alz.70536.

Modernizing diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: A review of global trends and 
Asia-specific perspectives.

Iwatsubo T(1), Sperling RA(2), Algeciras-Schimnich A(3), Arai H(4), Barron 
AM(5), Benzinger TLS(6), Carrillo MC(7), Chen C(8), Choi SH(9), Fontana IC(7), 
Graff-Radford J(10), Grill JD(11), Heidebrink J(12), Hu CJ(13)(14), Ihara R(15), 
Ikeuchi T(16), Iwata A(15), Ip FCF(17), Fitri FI(18), Jack CR Jr(19), Jeong 
JH(20), Jia J(21), Kandiah N(22)(23), Kim S(24), Kowa H(25), La Joie R(26), 
Niimi Y(27), Noritake R(28)(29), Okonkwo OC(30), Palmqvist S(31)(32), Rafii 
MS(33), Raman R(33), Shen Y(34)(35), Simuni T(36), Snyder HM(7), Sriwannopas 
O(37), Stoeckel LE(38), van der Flier WM(39)(40)(41), Wang H(42), Wilcock 
DM(43), Zetterberg H(44)(45)(46)(47)(48)(49), Zhou J(50), Mahinrad S(7), Sexton 
CE(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(4)National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, Japan.
(5)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University 
Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(6)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Neuroradiology Section, Washington 
University, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(7)Medical & Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, Memory Aging and Cognition Centre, Yong Loo Lin 
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Department of Neurology, Inha University College of Medicine, Incheon, 
Republic of Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(11)Departments of Psychiatry & Human Behavior and Neurobiology & Behavior, 
Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California Irvine, Irvine, California, USA.
(12)Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Department of Neurology, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(14)Department of Neurology, Dementia Center, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(15)Department of Neurology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.
(16)Department of Molecular Genetics, Brain Research Institute, Niigata, Japan.
(17)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience and Molecular Neuroscience 
Center, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology & Hong Kong Center 
For Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(18)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, 
Medan, Indonesia.
(19)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(21)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(22)Dementia Research Centre (Singapore) & Neuroscience and Mental Health 
Programme, Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(23)National Healthcare Group, Singapore, Singapore.
(24)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University College of Medicine & 
Clinical Neuroscience Center, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(25)Department of Rehabilitation Science, Kobe University Graduate School of 
Health Sciences, Kobe, Japan.
(26)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, UCSF Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(27)Unit for Early and Exploratory Clinical Development, University of Tokyo 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(28)Health and Global Policy Institute, Otemachi, Tokyo, Japan.
(29)Okayama University, Kita Ward, Okayama, Japan.
(30)Department of Medicine and the Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(31)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(32)Department of Clinical Sciences, Clinical Memory Research Unit, Malmö, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(33)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of 
University of Southern California, San Diego, California, USA.
(34)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center and Brain Bank, University of 
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China.
(35)Department of Neurology and the Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, The 
First Affiliated Hospital, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, 
China.
(36)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(37)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
(38)Division of Behavioral and Social Research, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(39)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(40)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(41)Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(42)Dementia Care and Research Center, Peking University Institute of Mental 
Health (Sixth Hospital), Beijing Municipal Key Lab for Translational Research on 
Diagnosis and Treatment of Dementia, National Clinical Research Center for 
Mental Disorders, NHC Key Laboratory for Mental Health, Beijing, China.
(43)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegenerative Disorders, IUSM/IUH 
Neuroscience Institute and Stark Neuroscience Research Institute, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(44)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(45)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(46)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(47)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(48)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China.
(49)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(50)Clinical Development Neurology, Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.

The landscape of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD) diagnosis 
is evolving rapidly, driven by advances in disease understanding, biomarker 
tools, and disease-modifying therapies. Modern diagnostic approaches emphasize 
biological precision, early detection, and dynamic frameworks that adapt to 
treatment-induced changes in disease biology. These frameworks enable 
opportunities for personalized interventions-encompassing pharmacological and 
non-pharmacological strategies-and for enhanced clinical trial design. However, 
implementing these advancements globally is influenced by diverse cultural, 
infrastructural, and regulatory factors. The 2024 Alzheimer's Association 
International Conference Advancements: Modernizing Diagnosis, held in Japan, 
provided a unique platform to explore these global dynamics, particularly from 
an Asian perspective. This article highlights key discussions from the 
conference, exploring the role of biomarker-based diagnostic frameworks in 
shaping the future of AD/ADRD research, diagnosis, and treatment. We highlight 
regional challenges and successes and emphasize ethical considerations and 
practical strategies needed to ensure equitable access to diagnostic and 
therapeutic innovations. HIGHLIGHTS: Advances in biomarkers are reshaping 
Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and treatment. Modern diagnostic frameworks 
highlight biological precision, early detection, and dynamic frameworks. The 
2024 Alzheimer's Association International Conference Advancements: Modernizing 
Diagnosis explored challenges and opportunities in global biomarker 
implementation. The conference explored geographic-specific impacts, focusing on 
Asia.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70536
PMCID: PMC12321508
PMID: 40760693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C. Carrillo is a full‐time employee of the 
Alzheimer's Association; received support from NIA, and grants or contracts from 
NIA and CDC. As a full‐time employee of the Alzheimer's Association, all travel 
expenses are covered by her employer. Participated on a data safety monitoring 
board or advisory board of NIA and NINDS funded initiatives including ADSP. 
Reports the following leadership or fiduciary roles: GHR Foundation—board, and 
American Heart Association—Research Committee (unpaid, no longer active). Her 
daughter is a neuroscience graduate student at USC. S. Mahinrad is a full‐time 
employee of the Alzheimer's Association. C. Sexton is a full‐time employee of 
the Alzheimer's Association. I.C. Fontana is a full‐time employee of the 
Alzheimer's Association. H.M. Snyder is a full‐time employee of the Alzheimer's 
Association. Received grants or contracts from NIA and CDC. As a full‐time 
employee of the Alzheimer's Association, all travel expenses are covered by her 
employer. Participated on the data safety monitoring board or advisory board 
(all external advisory board) of NIA and NINDS funded initiatives including 
DISCOVERY AD and Microbiome AD/ADRD studies, and NACC EAB. She reports the 
following leadership or fiduciary roles: Health Research Alliance—board (unpaid, 
past); American Heart Association—research committee (unpaid); liaison—Brain 
Health Council, American Heart Association (unpaid); Women's Brain Health 
Committee—AARP (unpaid); CDMRP, DoD Alzheimer's and Related Disorders 
Committee—Chair (unpaid); and XPrize Judge (unpaid). Her spouse works for Abbott 
in an unrelated area. T. Iwatsubo has received honoraria from Eisai and Eli 
Lilly. R.A. Sperling has served as a paid consultant for AbbVie, AC Immune, 
Acumen, Alector, Apellis, Biohaven, Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech, 
Ionis, Janssen, Oligomerix, Prothena, Roche, and Vaxxinity. She has received 
research funding from Eisai and Eli Lilly for public–private partnership 
clinical trials and receives research grant funding from the National Institute 
on Aging/National Institutes of Health, GHR Foundation, and the Alzheimer's 
Association. Her spouse, K. Johnson, reports consulting fees from Novartis, 
Prothena, Merck, and Janssen. A. Algeciras‐Schimnich serves on advisory boards 
for Roche Diagnostics and Fujirebio Diagnostics and received speaker honoraria 
from Roche Diagnostics. T.L.S. Benzinger has received grants or contracts from 
Siemens paid to her institution; consulting fees from Biogen** ($5,000–10,000), 
Eli Lilly, Eisai** ($5,000–10,000), Bristol Myers Squibb, J&J, and Merck; 
payment for CME activity from Medscape, PeerView, and Neurology Today; and 
travel reimbursement from Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Hong Kong Neurological 
Association, and the Alzheimer's Association. T.L.S.B. reports the following 
patents planned, issued or pending: US patent 16/097, 457 (DIFFUSION BASIS 
SPECTRUM IMAGING (DBSI), A NOVEL DIFFUSION MRI METHOD USED TO QUANTIFY 
NEUROINFLAMMATION AND PREDICT ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (AD) PROGRESSION), and US 
Patent 12,016,701 (Quantitative Differentiation of Tumor Heterogeneity Using 
Diffusion MR Imaging Data). T.L.S.B. has participated on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board of Siemens and served as an external advisor 
for NIH‐funded studies (no payments). T.L.S.B. has served as the co‐chair of 
ASNR Alzheimer's, ARIA and Dementia Study Group, and RSNA Quantitative Imaging 
Committee (QuIC) (all unpaid). T.L.S.B. has served as a committee member of the 
American College of Radiology/ALZ NET imaging, NIH CNN Study Section Chair, and 
had a leadership or fiduciary role in the ACR Commission on Neurology (all 
unpaid). T.L.S.B. has received technology transfer and precursors for 
radiopharmaceuticals from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals/Eli Lilly, LMI, and 
Lantheus, as well as a scanner loan from Hyperfine to her institution. For 
additional references regarding T.L.S.B. disclosures, see Sunshine ACT reporting 
here: https://openpaymentsdata.cms.gov/physician/850680. C. Chen has received 
grants or contracts from the National Medical Research Council of Singapore and 
has received support from the Alzheimer's Association for attending meetings 
and/or travel. J. Graff‐Radford has participated on DSMB for NINDS strokeNET; 
served as the site investigator for trials sponsored by Eisai and Cognition 
Therapeutics; has received NIH funding; and received payment or honoraria as a 
course director from the American Academy of Neurology and as a faculty from 
IMPACT AD, clinical trial course. J.D. Grill has received research support from 
NIA, the Alzheimer's Association, BrightFocus Foundation, Eli Lilly, Genentech, 
Biogen, and Eisai; has received travel support from the Alzheimer's Association 
and personal compensation for editorial service to Alzheimer's & Dementia. J. 
Heidebrink received grants from Biohaven, Cognition Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, 
Eisai, NIH/NIA; travel support from Alzheimer's Association to attend meetings; 
and honorarium as a faculty member for IMPACT‐AD clinical trials course (funded 
by grants from NIH and Alzheimer's Association). R. Ihara has received honoraria 
from Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio and Sysmex, PDR Pharma, Nihon Medi‐Physics, and 
IQVIA; participated on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board of 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, and MSD; and had leadership or fiduciary role in Japan Society 
for Dementia Research. T. Ikeuchi received grants or contracts from KAKENHI; 
consulting fees from FujiRebio, Eli Lilly, Sysmex, Eisai, and Novo Nordisk; and 
payment or honoraria from Eisai, PDR Pharma, FujiRebio, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, 
and Eli Lilly. A. Iwata has received advisory fees from Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Biogen, Ohtsuka, Dream medical partners, Sound wave Innovation, and UCB; 
honoraria from Eisai, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Ohtsuka, Daiichi Sankyo, Sysmex, 
Fujirebio, Janssen pharmaceutical, MSD, and UCB; research grants from Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Sysmex, Fujirebio, Fujifilm, SONY, MSD, Biogen, and Kobayashi 
Pharmaceuticals. F.C.F. Ip is a full‐time employee of Hong Kong Center For 
Neurodegenerative Diseases; received consulting fees from Cognitact Limited; has 
two patents licensed to Cognitact; and has stock or stock options in Cognitact 
Limited. C.R. Jack Jr. is employed by Mayo Clinic. He receives research grant 
funding from the National Institutes of Health, the Alexander family 
professorship, and the GHR Foundation. Within the past 36 months, he served on a 
DSMB for Roche pro bono; no payments to the individual or institution were 
involved. He has received funding from the Alzheimer's Association for travel to 
scientific meetings. H. Kowa received honoraria from Eisai and Eli Lilly. R.L. 
Joie consulted for GE Healthcare; received support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from the Alzheimer's Association; and grants or contracts from NIH, 
Alzheimer's Association, and US DoD. Y. Niimi belonged to the endowed chair; 
Department of Healthcare economics and Health policy supported by NN Life 
Insurance Company, Ltd.; and belongs to the endowed chair; Dementia Inclusion 
and Therapeutics supported by Effissimo Capital Management Pte Ltd. R. Noritake 
received consulting fees from Syneos Health Japan and AstraZeneca. O.C. Okonkwo 
reports grants from NIH; and leadership or fiduciary role in the International 
Neuropsychological Society. S. Palmqvist received grants or contracts from Avid 
Pharmaceuticals and Ki elements/ADDF (both paid to the institution); received 
payment or honoraria from Eli Lilly, Eisai, BioArctic, and Novo Nordisk for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events; and participated on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board of 
Eli Lilly, Eisai, and BioArctic. M.S. Rafii received grants from Eisai and 
Lilly. He is a consultant for Ionis and AC Immune and serves on the DSMB for 
Biohaven and on the Scientific Advisory Board for Prescient Imaging, Positrigo, 
and Embic. R. Raman receives grant funding from the National Institutes of 
Health, Eisai, Alzheimer's Association, and the American Heart Association; 
travel support for participating in the Alzheimer's Association's managed 
conferences when a scientific committee member or invited speaker; is an 
emeritus Board member (unpaid) of Alzheimer's Association San Diego/Imperial 
Chapter. Y. Shen received grants or contracts and support for attending 
meetings/travel from the Chinese Academy of Sciences (XDB39000000) and Nature 
Science Foundation (31530089). T. Simuni has, in the last 12 months, served as a 
consultant for AskBio, Blue Rock Therapeutics, Critical Path for Parkinson's 
Consortium (CPP), Denali, Centessa, Genentech, MJFF, Prevail/Lilly, 
Roche/Genentech, Ventus, Sinopia, Ventyx, TrueBinding, and Vanqua Bio; has 
equity in Sinopia and has served on the ad board for Biohaven, GE, GAIN, 
Genentech, FDA, Neuron23, Parkinson Study Group, Prevail/Lilly and 
Roche/Genentech; has served as a member of the scientific advisory board of 
Koneksa and UCB; and has received research funding from MJFF, Neuroderm, NINDS, 
Parkinson's Foundation Prevail, Roche, and UCB. W.M. van der Flier has been an 
invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), 
NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council with all funding paid 
to her institution; is a consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, 
Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai, all funding paid to her institution; participated in 
advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and Eli Lilly; is a member of the 
steering committee of phase 3 EVOKE/EVOKE+ studies (NovoNordisk), all funding 
paid to her institution; is a member of the steering committee of PAVE, and 
Think Brain Health; is a member of the Scientific Leadership Group of InRAD; was 
associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021; is associate 
editor at Brain; is a member of supervisory board (Raad van Toezicht) Trimbos 
Instituut. H. Wang is a global advisory board member, Eisai Inc., and is served 
as president of the Chinese Society of Geriatric Psychiatry (unpaid). D.M. 
Wilcock received support for attending Alzheimer's Association International 
Conference (in 2022, 2023, and 2024) and AD/PD (in 2022, 2023, and 2024); 
participated on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board of BU‐ADRC EAB, 
Michigan ADRC EAB, UAB‐ADRC EAB, USC‐ADRC EAB, South Texas ADRC EAB, Phenotype 
Harmonization Consortium EAB, Fun‐Gen Consortium EAB, Synaps‐Dx SAB, Longeveron 
SAB, and Vigil Neuroscience SAB; serves as the editor‐in‐chief of Alzheimer's & 
Dementia journal. H. Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory boards and/or 
as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; is chair of the Alzheimer's Association 
Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium and chair of the IFCC WG‐BND; and is 
a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). J. Zhou is a 
full‐time employee of Eisai Inc. The rest of the authors have no disclosures. 
The content of this manuscript is solely the responsibility of the authors and 
does not represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health or 
the federal government. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


4. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Aug 4;25(1):587. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-06276-y.

Analysis of risk-factors associated with hospital-acquired pneumonia in patients 
with alzheimer's disease based on gender differences.

Chen W(1)(2), Chen Y(3), Tang Q(1)(2), Kong D(1)(2), Xu M(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2), 
Li Q(1)(2), Yang M(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory, Science Research and Education, Pharmacy and 
Hospital Infection Management, The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, No.8 
Huli-West 1st-Alley, Jinniu District, Chengdu, 610036, China.
(2)The Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, MOE Key Lab for 
Neuroinformation, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, 
Qingshuihe Campus:No.2006, Xiyuan Ave, West Hi-Tech Zone, Chengdu, 611731, 
Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Infection Management, the First People's Hospital of 
Lianyungang, Lianyungang, 222061, Jiangsu, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Laboratory, Science Research and Education, Pharmacy and 
Hospital Infection Management, The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, No.8 
Huli-West 1st-Alley, Jinniu District, Chengdu, 610036, China. 565136170@qq.com.
(5)The Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, MOE Key Lab for 
Neuroinformation, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, 
Qingshuihe Campus:No.2006, Xiyuan Ave, West Hi-Tech Zone, Chengdu, 611731, 
Sichuan, China. 565136170@qq.com.
(6)School of life Science and technology, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, China. 565136170@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: Pneumonia is an important cause of death in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), and understanding the factors associated with 
hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) is essential for preventing the development of 
HAP in AD patients. This study aimed to elucidate the specific risk factors 
related to HAP in AD patients based on gender differences.
METHODS: A total of 1066 patients with Alzheimer's disease (483 males, 583 
females), who were admitted to a large psychiatric hospital for the first time 
between 2013 and 2023, were included in the study. The association between HAP 
and patients' personal characteristics, medication use and blood test results 
among genders was analysed. Finally, binary logistic regression was used to 
identify the independent risk factors for men and women.
RESULTS: The infection rate of HAP in male AD patients was significantly higher 
than that in females, at 41.8% and 23.3%, respectively (χ2 = 41.726, P < 0.001). 
Regression results showed that in male patients, HAP was independently 
correlated with age, apolipoprotein A1 level and lymphocyte count, whereas in 
female patients, HAP was independently correlated with age, albumin, low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol and neutrophil count.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that older AD patients are more susceptible to 
HAP; the infection rate of HAP in male patients with Alzheimer's disease is 
higher than that in females, and there are differences in the factors associated 
with the occurrence of HAP between male and female patients. It is suggested 
that prevention and treatment strategies for hospital-acquired pneumonia in 
individuals with Alzheimer's disease could consider age and gender differences.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-06276-y
PMCID: PMC12323024
PMID: 40760649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved 
by the Ethics Committee of the Fourth People’s Hospital of Chengdu (Approval 
Number: [2022] Lunshen Zi (77)). Written informed consent for participation was 
not required for this study in accordance with national legislation and 
institutional requirements. We can confirm that all methods and human data 
involved were carried out in accordance with the relevant guidelines and 
provisions of the Helsinki Declaration. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


5. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Aug 1;104(31):e43669. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043669.

Effect of shunt surgery on idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus with 
incomplete Gerstmann syndrome: A CARE-compliant case report.

Goto K(1), Kutsuna N(1)(2), Nishihara T(1), Makita K(1), Suzuki A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fukujukai Adachi Tobu Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Stress and Invasiveness Control, Toho University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, Umeda Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

RATIONALE: Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) occasionally 
co-exists with neurodegenerative disease, but its concurrence with Gerstmann 
syndrome (GS) has not been reported, leaving the reversibility of GS-like 
deficits after cerebrospinal fluid diversion unknown.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 77-year-old woman experienced a 1-year progressive decline 
in memory, object naming, and spatial orientation, eventually requiring 
institutional care.
DIAGNOSES: Neurological examination revealed severe cognitive impairment 
(mini-mental state examination [MMSE] 4/30) with acalculia, agraphia, finger 
agnosia, and mild left-right disorientation, consistent with incomplete GS. 
Brain computed tomography demonstrated ventriculomegaly (Evans index 0.33), 
bilateral hippocampal atrophy, and a positive disproportionately enlarged 
subarachnoid space hydrocephalus sign, fulfilling Japanese iNPH criteria and 
suggesting comorbid Alzheimer's disease.
INTERVENTIONS: In February 2024, a programmable ventriculoperitoneal shunt with 
a CODMAN CERTAS Plus valve was placed.
OUTCOMES: At 1 month, MMSE improved to 9, and left-right disorientation, 
agraphia, and anomia resolved; finger agnosia recovered by 2 months, and 
acalculia partially improved by 3 months (MMSE 11). Serial imaging showed 
progressive resolution of the disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space 
hydrocephalus sign, while ventricular size remained largely unchanged. No 
shunt-related complications occurred during the 3-month follow-up.
LESSONS: Ventriculoperitoneal shunting can reverse higher cortical dysfunction - 
including GS-like symptoms - in iNPH even when imaging suggests concomitant 
Alzheimer's pathology. Recognition of such reversible neuropsychological signs 
may broaden surgical indications and improve patient outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043669
PMCID: PMC12323923
PMID: 40760575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


6. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Aug 4;17(1):180. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01812-9.

Aducanumab binds high molecular weight soluble Aβ oligomers and restores 
intracellular calcium levels.

Yu L(#)(1)(2), Wang X(#)(1)(3), Doan TH(1), Fan Y(4), Bussiere T(5), Bacskai 
BJ(1), Kastanenka KV(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, MassGeneral Institute of Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown Boston, 
MA, 02129, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, China.
(3)Moderna, Inc., Norwood, MA, 02062, USA.
(4)Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, 02453, USA.
(5)Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, MA, 02142, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, MassGeneral Institute of Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown Boston, 
MA, 02129, USA. kkastanenka@mgh.harvard.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
accumulation, leading to the formation of neurotoxic soluble oligomers (AβOs) 
that impair calcium homeostasis in neurons and astrocytes. Aducanumab, a fully 
human monoclonal antibody targeting aggregated Aβ, has been approved for AD 
treatment due to its ability to reduce amyloid plaque burden. However, its 
specificity toward different AβO species and its functional impact on calcium 
homeostasis remain unclear.
METHODS: We investigated aducanumab's ability to recognize and immunodeplete 
low-molecular-weight (LMW) and high-molecular-weight (HMW) AβOs using three Aβ 
preparations: (1) transgenic conditioned media (TgCM) from cultured Tg2576 
neurons, (2) synthetic Aβ42-derived diffusible ligands (ADDLs), and (3) 
TBS-soluble fractions from aged Tg2576 mouse brain. Size exclusion 
chromatography and ELISA were used to characterize AβO species. Multiphoton 
calcium imaging of neuron-astrocyte co-cultures was performed to assess the 
impact of aducanumab on AβO-induced calcium overload.
RESULTS: Aducanumab preferentially bound and immunodepleted HMW AβOs in ADDLs 
and the TBS-soluble fraction of Tg2576 mouse brain extracts but did not 
recognize LMW AβOs in TgCM. In calcium imaging experiments, all three AβO 
preparations induced calcium overload in neuron-astrocyte co-cultures. 
Immunodepletion with aducanumab prevented calcium overload in cultures exposed 
to ADDLs and Tg2576 brain extracts but not in those treated with immunodepleted 
TgCM, indicating that aducanumab selectively neutralizes HMW AβOs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that aducanumab specifically targets HMW 
AβOs, mitigating their neurotoxic effects by restoring intracellular calcium 
homeostasis. These results provide mechanistic insight into aducanumab's 
therapeutic action and support its potential role in modifying AD pathology by 
selectively neutralizing Aβ species.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01812-9
PMCID: PMC12323110
PMID: 40760501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


7. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2025 Aug 5;16(1):420. doi: 10.1186/s13287-025-04556-3.

Stem cell-based therapeutic strategies for down syndrome and Alzheimer's 
disease.

Hamadelseed O(1), Skutella T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University 
of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. Osama.hamadelseed@uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department of Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University 
of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are two distinct yet 
interconnected neurological conditions that share overlapping pathological 
features, including amyloid-beta plaque accumulation, neuroinflammation, and 
progressive neurodegeneration. Individuals with DS are at increased risk of 
developing AD-like dementia owing to the overexpression of the amyloid precursor 
protein-encoding gene on chromosome 21. Despite significant research efforts, 
effective disease-modifying treatments remain unavailable for both conditions, 
necessitating the exploration of novel therapeutic approaches.
METHODS: We analyzed and synthesized the existing literature on stem cell 
therapy as a treatment for DS and AD. We conducted a comprehensive search of 
PubMed, Google Scholar, and Web of Science databases, focusing on recent, 
high-quality, and peer-reviewed studies on stem cell therapy in DS and AD.
RESULTS: The findings indicate that stem cell therapy represents a promising 
therapeutic approach for both conditions. Preclinical trials using neural, 
mesenchymal, and induced pluripotent stem cells have shown their potential to 
mitigate disease pathology, restore neuronal function, modulate 
neuroinflammation, enhance neurogenesis, and improve cognitive performance in DS 
and AD models; these findings suggest the viability of stem cell-based 
interventions as a disease-modifying strategy. However, despite promising 
findings, the efficacy and safety of these approaches require further validation 
through well-designed human clinical trials before clinical translation. 
Furthermore, AD research in stem cell therapy is currently more advanced than DS 
research, with a greater number of preclinical and early clinical 
investigations. In fact, people with DS have been previously excluded from 
clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: While both DS and AD share common neurodegenerative mechanisms and 
are potential candidates for stem cell therapeutic approaches, the therapeutic 
focus varies. This study underscores the potential of stem cell therapy as a 
novel disease-modifying approach for both conditions while emphasizing the need 
for further research to refine therapeutic protocols, address ethical and safety 
concerns, and evaluate the feasibility of translating these therapies into 
clinical practice.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-025-04556-3
PMCID: PMC12323096
PMID: 40760500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


8. Neurosci Bull. 2025 Oct;41(10):1711-1728. doi: 10.1007/s12264-025-01444-x.
Epub  2025 Aug 4.

Precise Magnetic Stimulation of the Paraventricular Nucleus Improves Sociability 
in a Mouse Model of ASD.

Liu S(#)(1)(2), Yang Q(#)(1)(2), Zhu P(1)(2), Liu X(3), Lu Q(4), Yang J(5), Gao 
J(5), Han H(6), Zhang Z(7)(8), Gu N(9), Tan T(10), Sun J(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biomaterials and Devices, School of Biological 
Science and Medical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, 210096, China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical School of Southeast 
University, Nanjing, 210009, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Zhongda Hospital, Research Institution of 
Neuropsychiatry, School of Medicine, Key Laboratory of Developmental Genes and 
Human Disease, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, China.
(5)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325000, China.
(6)Department of Radiology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
Devices and Technology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 100191, 
China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Zhongda Hospital, Research Institution of 
Neuropsychiatry, School of Medicine, Key Laboratory of Developmental Genes and 
Human Disease, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, China. 
janemengzhang@vip.163.com.
(8)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Treatment of Depression, 
Department of Mental Health and Public Health, Faculty of Life and Health 
Sciences, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. janemengzhang@vip.163.com.
(9)Nanjing Key Laboratory for Cardiovascular Information and Health Engineering 
Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Medical School, Nanjing Drum Tower 
Hospital, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. guning@nju.edu.cn.
(10)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325000, China. sunzaghi@seu.edu.cn.
(11)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biomaterials and Devices, School of Biological 
Science and Medical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, China. 
sunzaghi@seu.edu.cn.
(12)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, 210096, China. sunzaghi@seu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Magnetic stimulation has made significant strides in the treatment of 
psychiatric disorders. Nonetheless, current magnetic stimulation techniques lack 
the precision to accurately modulate specific nuclei and cannot realize deep 
brain magnetic stimulation. To address this, we utilized superparamagnetic iron 
oxide nanoparticles as mediators to achieve precise targeting and penetration. 
We investigated the effects of magnetic fields with varying frequencies on 
neuronal activity and compared the activation effects on neurons using a 10-Hz 
precise magneto-stimulation system (pMSS) with repetitive transcranial magnetic 
stimulation in mice. Oxytocin levels, dendritic morphology and density, and 
mouse behavior were measured before and after pMSS intervention. Our findings 
suggest that pMSS can activate oxytocinergic neurons, leading to upregulation of 
oxytocin secretion and neurite outgrowth. As a result, sociability was rapidly 
improved after a one-week pMSS treatment regimen. These results demonstrate a 
promising magneto-stimulation method for regulating neuronal activity in deep 
brain nuclei and provide a promising therapeutic approach for autism spectrum 
disorder.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-025-01444-x
PMCID: PMC12495014
PMID: 40760231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. Data availability: All data needed to 
evaluate the conclusions in the paper are present in the paper and/or the 
Supplementary Material. Additional data related to this paper may be requested 
from the authors.


9. Nat Neurosci. 2025 Sep;28(9):1830-1843. doi: 10.1038/s41593-025-02020-2. Epub 
2025 Aug 4.

Alzheimer's disease transcriptional landscape in ex vivo human microglia.

Kosoy R(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Fullard JF(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Bendl J(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Kleopoulos SP(1)(2)(3)(4), Shao Z(1)(2)(3)(4), Argyriou S(1)(2)(3)(4), Mathur 
D(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Psychogyiou K(1)(2)(3)(4), Malakates P(1)(2)(3)(4), Vicari 
J(1)(2)(3)(4), Ma Y(1)(2)(3)(4), Humphrey J(3)(4)(7)(8), Brophy E(3)(4)(7)(8), 
Raj T(3)(4)(7)(8), Katsel P(2), Voloudakis G(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Lee 
D(1)(2)(3)(4), Bennett DA(9)(10), Haroutunian V(2)(5)(7), Hoffman 
GE(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Roussos P(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease Neurogenomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)Department of Genetics and Genomics Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(5)Mental Illness Research Education, and Clinical Center (VISN 2 South), James 
J. Peters VA Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Center for Precision Medicine and Translational Therapeutics, James J. Peters 
VA Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(9)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(10)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(11)Center for Disease Neurogenomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(13)Department of Genetics and Genomics Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(14)Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(15)Mental Illness Research Education, and Clinical Center (VISN 2 South), James 
J. Peters VA Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(16)Center for Precision Medicine and Translational Therapeutics, James J. 
Peters VA Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. panagiotis.roussos@mssm.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Jan 26:rs.3.rs-3851590. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-3851590/v1.

Microglia are resident immune cells of the brain and are implicated in the 
etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other diseases. Yet the cellular and 
molecular processes regulating their function throughout the course of the 
disease are poorly understood. Here, we present a transcriptional analysis of 
primary microglia from 189 human postmortem brains, including 58 healthy aging 
individuals and 131 with a range of disease phenotypes, such as 63 patients 
representing the full clinical and pathological spectra of AD. We identified 
changes associated with multiple AD phenotypes, capturing the severity of 
dementia and neuropathological lesions. Transcript-level analyses identified 
additional genes with heterogeneous isoform usage and AD phenotypes. We 
identified changes in gene-gene coordination in AD, dysregulation of 
coexpression modules and disease subtypes with distinct gene expression 
patterns. Taken together, these data further our understanding of the key role 
that microglia have in AD biology and nominate candidates for therapeutic 
intervention.

© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-025-02020-2
PMID: 40760184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


10. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Aug 4;45(1):77. doi: 10.1007/s10571-025-01568-8.

Identification of Novel Scaffolds Against GSK-3β for Targeting Alzheimer's 
Disease Through Molecular Modeling Techniques.

Haque S(1)(2), Mathkor DM(1), Wahid M(1), Suri H(3), Ahmad F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, College of Nursing and Health Sciences, Jazan 
University, 82911, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Health Research Centre, Jazan University, 45142, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, School of Bio Sciences and Technology (SBST), 
Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, 632014, India.
(4)Department of Integrative Biology, School of Bio Sciences and Technology 
(SBST), Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, India, 632014. 
faraz.ahmad@vit.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common causes of dementia in elderly 
populations. A multifactorial and complex etiology has hindered the 
establishment of successful disease-modifying and retarding treatments. An 
important molecular target that has a close link with the disease's 
pathophysiology is glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β). GSK-3β is thought to be 
an important bridge between amyloid and tau pathologies, the two principle 
pathogenic hallmarks of the disease. In particular, its kinase activity is 
thought to be a contributing factor for initiating aberrant tau 
hyperphosphorylation toward neurodegenerative progression. To identify potential 
inhibitors for GSK-3β, a pharmacophore-based virtual screening was used on the 
VITAS-M Lab database, a large database of small molecules. A co-crystal ligand 
employed as the template allowed the screening of roughly 200,000 compounds. 
Compounds successfully screened were selected on the basis of the Phase screen 
score combining vector alignments, volume scores, and site matching parameters. 
Using a cutoff score of 1.7, 174 compounds were docked using the Glide tool for 
molecular docking to further identify potential high-affinity binding ligands. 
Finally, four chemicals with the best binding scores (cutoff Glide GScore values 
of - 8 kcal/mol) were identified. Among these, 
3-(2-oxo-2H-chromen-3-yl)-N-(4-sulfamoylphenyl) benzamide (VL-1) and 
trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate (VL-2) showed strong and stable binding 
interactions, as evidenced by molecular dynamics simulation (MDS). The results 
suggest that VL-1 and VL-2 may serve as promising lead compounds for 
GSK-3β-based anti-AD therapeutics. However, further in vivo mechanistic 
validation is warrantied to confirm their therapeutic applicability.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-025-01568-8
PMCID: PMC12321713
PMID: 40760108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. Ethical 
Approval: Not applicable, as no human or animal subjects were used in the study.


11. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70497. doi: 10.1002/alz.70497.

Diabetic retinopathy and Alzheimer's disease: Convergence of the unfolded 
protein response in neurodegeneration.

Palacios AG(1), Zhang SX(2), Acosta ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Neurociencia and Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia de 
Valparaíso, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, Valparaiso, Chile.
(2)Departments of Ophthalmology and Biochemistry, Ross Eye Institute, University 
at Buffalo, State University of New York, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(3)New Zealand National Eye Centre, Centre for Brain Research and School of 
Optometry and Vision Science, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Diabetic retinopathy (DR) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are progressive 
neurodegenerative disorders affecting the eye and the brain, respectively. 
Despite targeting different organs, they share common molecular mechanisms. A 
central process connecting these conditions is the unfolded protein response 
(UPR), which maintains protein homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). 
Dysregulation of UPR pathways, particularly the IRE1-XBP1 and PERK-eIF2α 
pathways, can lead to inflammation, oxidative stress, and neurodegeneration. 
While the IRE1-XBP1 pathway regulates protein folding and inflammatory 
signaling, the PERK-eIF2α pathway reduces protein synthesis but may trigger 
apoptosis if persistently activated. Emerging therapies targeting UPR pathways 
and ER chaperones show promise in mitigating neurodegenerative damage in DR and 
AD. This review highlights shared pathophysiological mechanisms, explore retinal 
biomarkers for early AD detection, and emphasizes UPR modulation as a 
therapeutic strategy for neurodegeneration in aging-related diseases. 
HIGHLIGHTS: Diabetic retinopathy (DR, ocular disorder) and Alzheimer's disease 
(AD, cerebral disorder) share common molecular mechanisms, including oxidative 
stress, inflammation, and proteostasis dysfunction. UPR is a critical pathway 
linking both diseases through endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and 
neurodegeneration and targeting unfolded protein response (UPR) pathways, ER 
chaperones (e.g., P58IPK), and anti-inflammatory treatments show promise. The 
IRE1-XBP1 pathway regulates protein homeostasis and inflammation; XBP1s protects 
against ER stress in both retinal and brain neurons. The PERK-eIF2α pathway 
suppresses protein synthesis under stress but may induce apoptosis via ATF4 and 
CHOP if chronically activated. Age-related decline in metabolism, proteostasis, 
and neurovascular function intensifies disease progression and exacerbates 
molecular and cellular damage in both DR and AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70497
PMCID: PMC12321509
PMID: 40760071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.G.P., S.X.Z., and M.A. contributed equally to 
the conceptualization, literature review, and writing of this manuscript. All 
authors critically reviewed and approved the final version for submission. All 
authors declare no financial or non‐financial competing interests, and they have 
no conflicts of interest related to this publication. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


12. Nat Commun. 2025 Aug 4;16(1):7147. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-62416-3.

Fasting is required for many of the benefits of calorie restriction in the 3xTg 
mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Babygirija R(1)(2)(3), Han JH(3), Sonsalla MM(1)(2)(4), Matoska R(1)(2), Calubag 
MF(1)(2)(3), Green CL(1)(2), Tobon A(1)(2), Yeh CY(1)(2), Vertein D(1), Schlorf 
S(1)(2), Illiano J(2)(5), Liu Y(1)(2)(6), Grunow I(1)(2), Rigby MJ(1)(7)(8), 
Puglielli L(1)(7)(9), Harris DA(2)(5)(10)(9), Denu JM(11)(9), Lamming 
DW(12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17)(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Biology Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Wisconsin Surgical Laboratory in Metabolism, Department of Surgery, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Endocrinology and Reproductive Physiology Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(7)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(8)Neuroscience Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(9)Wisconsin Nathan Shock Center of Excellence in the Basic Biology of Aging, 
Madison, WI, USA.
(10)University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Diabetes Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(11)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, WI, USA.
(12)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. 
dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(13)William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, USA. 
dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(14)Cellular and Molecular Biology Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(15)Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(16)Endocrinology and Reproductive Physiology Graduate Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(17)University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Diabetes Center, Madison, WI, USA. 
dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(18)Wisconsin Nathan Shock Center of Excellence in the Basic Biology of Aging, 
Madison, WI, USA. dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.
(19)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center, Madison, WI, USA. 
dlamming@medicine.wisc.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Sep 24:2024.09.19.613904. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.19.613904.

Caloric restriction slows or prevents Alzheimer's disease in animal models. 
Calorie restriction is typically implemented in rodents through feeding once per 
day; as the animals quickly consume their food, they are subject to a prolonged 
self-imposed fasting period between meals. Here, we examine the distinct 
contributions of fasting and reduced calories to the beneficial effects of 
calorie restriction on Alzheimer's disease by placing male and female 3xTg and 
non-transgenic control mice on a series of diet regimens enabling us to dissect 
the effects of calories and fasting. We find that reducing calories alone 
improves body weight and glucose tolerance. However, a prolonged fast between 
meals is necessary for many of the benefits of calorie restriction, including 
improved insulin sensitivity, reduced Alzheimer's pathology, improved 
neuroprotective signaling, and improved cognition. Overall, our results suggest 
that both when and how much we eat may influence the development and progression 
of Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-62416-3
PMCID: PMC12322025
PMID: 40759886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: D.W.L. has received funding 
from, and is a scientific advisory board member of, Aeovian Pharmaceuticals, 
which seeks to develop novel, selective mTOR inhibitors for the treatment of 
various diseases. J.M.D. is a consultant for Evrys Bio and co-founder of Galilei 
BioSciences. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


13. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Sep;33(9):5483-5508. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01872-1.  Epub 2025 Aug 4.

A systems biology approach reveals dual neurotherapeutic mechanisms of Dioscorea 
bulbifera in Alzheimer's disease via estrogen signaling and cholinergic 
modulation.

Chowdhury MR(1), Vijaykumar SD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, 
Tadepalligudem, Andhra Pradesh, 534101, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, 
Tadepalligudem, Andhra Pradesh, 534101, India. sudarshanadeepa@nitandhra.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder marked 
by cognitive decline, cholinergic dysfunction, synaptic loss, and 
neuroinflammation. Existing therapies such as Donepezil and estrogen replacement 
offer only symptomatic relief, failing to address the complexity of the disease 
due to their reductionist, single-targeted approach. In this study, we employed 
an integrative systems biology framework to evaluate the neurotherapeutic 
potential of Dioscorea bulbifera (DB), a core component of the US-patented 
polyherbal formulation BHD (comprising Bacopa monnieri, Hippophae rhamnoides, 
and DB), which has shown promising neuroprotective properties in preclinical 
models. We identified active phytoconstituents of DB-including Emodin, 
Beta-sitosterol, Diosgenin, Stigmasterol, Diosbulbin B, Jarnol, and 
Myricetin-and systematically assessed their interaction with 
Alzheimer's-relevant hub-bottleneck (H-B) genes using molecular docking, gene 
expression integration, network pharmacology, and molecular dynamics 
simulations. Our findings delineate a dual mechanistic model of DB's action: (1) 
an Estrogen Signaling Module centered around ESR1 and its key signaling 
associates (MAPK1, MAPK8, AKT1, EGFR, PIK3CA, and MAP2K1), forming a tightly 
interconnected, feedback-regulated pathway modulating memory, synaptic 
plasticity, neuroprotection, and inflammation; and (2) a Cholinergic Module 
involving direct inhibition of ACHE, providing rapid symptomatic relief. 
Molecular docking and dynamic simulations confirmed the strong and stable 
interactions of DB bioactives with both ESR1 and ACHE, showing comparable or 
superior stability to reference drugs (Estradiol and Donepezil). Regulatory 
network analysis revealed that ESR1 is one of the most connected genes in 
hippocampal-specific PPI networks and is co-regulated by numerous miRNAs and 
transcription factors. Co-expression analysis identified additional AD-relevant 
genes (e.g., PIK3R1, MAPK14, PTEN, DHODH, CAV1) involved in synaptic signaling, 
oxidative stress, and neurogenesis, while TF-miRNA coregulatory nodes such as 
miR-199a-3p, miR-181a-5p, GATA2, CREB1, and HINFP added further mechanistic 
layers to DB's network modulation. KEGG and GO enrichment analyses mapped 
DB-targeted genes to critical AD pathways, including Estrogen signaling, MAPK, 
PI3K-AKT, TNF, FoxO, and the Alzheimer's disease pathway itself. This 
multi-targeted, systems-level modulation by DB underscores its potential not 
only as a neuroprotective nutraceutical-especially for postmenopausal women 
vulnerable to estrogen loss-but also as a promising adjuvant to standard AD 
therapies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01872-1
PMID: 40759849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


14. Nat Genet. 2025 Aug;57(8):1848-1859. doi: 10.1038/s41588-025-02269-0. Epub
2025  Aug 4.

Uncovering the multivariate genetic architecture of frailty with genomic 
structural equation modeling.

Foote IF(1)(2), Flint JP(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Fürtjes AE(3)(4), Lawrence JM(8)(9), 
Mullin DS(7)(10), Fisk JD(11)(12), Karakach TK(13), Rutenberg A(14), Martin 
NG(6), Lupton MK(6)(15)(16), Llewellyn DJ(17)(18), Ranson JM(17), Cox SR(3)(4), 
Luciano M(3)(4), Rockwood K(11)(12), Grotzinger AD(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, 
CO, USA. isabelle.foote@colorado.edu.
(2)Centre for Preventive Neurology, Wolfson Institute of Population Health, 
Queen Mary University of London, London, UK. isabelle.foote@colorado.edu.
(3)Lothian Birth Cohorts, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language 
Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Advanced Care Research Centre School of Engineering, College of Science and 
Engineering, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Brain and Mental Health Program, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(7)Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Research Centre, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(8)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, 
CO, USA.
(9)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder, 
Boulder, CO, USA.
(10)Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, Division of Psychiatry, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(11)Nova Scotia Health, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(12)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
Canada.
(13)Department of Pharmacology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
Canada.
(14)Department of Physics and Atmospheric Science, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(15)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(16)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(17)University of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(18)Alan Turing Institute, London, UK.

Frailty is a multifaceted clinical state associated with accelerated aging and 
adverse health outcomes. Informed etiological models of frailty hold promise for 
producing widespread health improvements across the aging population. Frailty is 
currently measured using aggregate scores, which obscure etiological pathways 
that are only relevant to subcomponents of frailty. Here we perform a 
multivariate genome-wide association study of the latent genetic architecture 
between 30 frailty deficits, which identifies 408 genomic risk loci. Our model 
includes a general factor of genetic overlap across all deficits, plus six new 
factors indexing a shared genetic signal across specific groups of deficits. We 
demonstrate the added clinical and etiological value of the six factors, 
including predicting frailty in external datasets, highlighting divergent 
genetic correlations with clinically relevant outcomes and uncovering unique 
underlying biology linked to aging. We show that nuanced models of frailty are 
key to understanding its causes and how it relates to worse health.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41588-025-02269-0
PMID: 40759756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Although not directly 
related to the submitted work, K.R. has asserted copyright over the Clinical 
Frailty Scale and (with O. Theou) the Pictorial Fit-Frail Scale, which have been 
made freely available for noncommercial education and research, and nonprofit 
healthcare via completion of a permission agreement stipulating that users will 
not change, charge for or commercialize the scales. For-profit entities 
(including pharma) pay a licensing fee, 15% of which is retained by the 
Dalhousie University Office of Commercialization and Industry Engagement. After 
taxes, the remainder of the license fees are donated to the Dalhousie Medical 
Research Foundation. In the past 3 years, licenses have been negotiated with 
Renibus Therapeutics, Cook Research Incorporated, W.L. Gore Associates, Pfizer, 
Cellcolabs AB, AstraZeneca UK, Qu Biologics, Biotest AG, BioAge Labs, Congenica 
and Icosavax. The other authors declare no competing interests.


15. Nat Commun. 2025 Aug 4;16(1):7146. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-62478-3.

The spatial landscape of glial pathology and T cell response in Parkinson's 
disease substantia nigra.

Ma M(1), Paryani F(#)(1), Jakubiak K(#)(1)(2), Xia S(1), Antoku S(1), Kannan 
A(3), Lee J(1), Madden N(1), Senthil Kumar S(1), Li J(1)(2), Chen D(4)(5), 
Hargus G(1)(6), Mahajan A(3), Flowers X(1)(7), Harms AS(2)(8), Sulzer 
D(2)(6)(9)(10)(11), Goldman JE(1)(2)(6), Sims PA(4)(5)(12), Al-Dalahmah 
O(13)(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology & Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Systems Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(5)Sulzberger Columbia Genome Center, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, 
New York, NY, USA.
(6)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)New York Brain Bank, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(11)Division of Molecular Therapeutics, New York State Psychiatric Institute, 
New York, NY, USA.
(12)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology & Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA. oa2298@cumc.columbia.edu.
(14)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD, USA. oa2298@cumc.columbia.edu.
(15)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. 
oa2298@cumc.columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is an incurable neurodegenerative disease that causes 
movement disorders. Neurons in PD aggregate α-synuclein and are depleted from 
the substantia nigra (SN), which is a movement control hub. The presence of 
α-synuclein-reactive T cells in PD patient blood suggests a role for adaptive 
immunity in the pathogenesis of PD. However, the characteristics of this 
response within the brain are not well understood. Here, we employed 
single-nucleus RNAseq, spatial transcriptomics, and T cell receptor (TCR) 
sequencing to analyze T cell and glial cell states in post-mortem PD brain 
tissue. CD8 + T cells were enriched in the PD SN and characterized by clonal 
expansion and TCR sequences with homology to those reactive to α-synuclein. 
Furthermore, PD T cells were spatially correlated with CD44+ astrocytes, which 
increased in the PD SN. Silencing CD44 in cultured astrocytes attenuated 
neuroinflammatory signatures, suggesting a potential therapeutic target. These 
findings provide insight into the neurodegenerative niche underlying T 
cell-mediated neuroinflammation in PD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-62478-3
PMCID: PMC12322057
PMID: 40759663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


16. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 Oct 22;420:111685. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111685.
Epub  2025 Aug 5.

Isofagomine-coumarin hybrids: bridging cancer and Alzheimer's disease.

Santos Evangelista TC(1), González-Bakker A(2), Puerta A(2), Poeta E(3), Monti 
B(3), Naldi M(3), Bolognesi ML(3), Bartolini M(3), Vaaland Holmgard IC(4), Butt 
A(4), Padrón JM(5), Fernández-Bolaños JG(6), Sydnes MO(7), Lindbäck E(8), López 
Ó(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Bioscience and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of 
Science and Technology, University of Stavanger, NO-4036, Stavanger, Norway; 
Department of Organic Chemistry, Chemistry Institute, Federal University of Rio 
de Janeiro, UFRJ, 21949-900, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)BioLab, Instituto Universitario de Bio-Orgánica "Antonio González", 
Universidad de la Laguna, C/ Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, 38206, La Laguna, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum University of 
Bologna, via Belmeloro 6, 40126, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Bioscience and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of 
Science and Technology, University of Stavanger, NO-4036, Stavanger, Norway.
(5)BioLab, Instituto Universitario de Bio-Orgánica "Antonio González", 
Universidad de la Laguna, C/ Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, 38206, La Laguna, 
Spain. Electronic address: jmpadron@ull.es.
(6)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Química, Universidad de 
Sevilla, Apartado 1203, E-41071, Seville, Spain.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Bioscience and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of 
Science and Technology, University of Stavanger, NO-4036, Stavanger, Norway; 
Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of 
Bergen, NO-5020, Bergen, Norway.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Bioscience and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of 
Science and Technology, University of Stavanger, NO-4036, Stavanger, Norway. 
Electronic address: emil.lindback@uis.no.
(9)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Química, Universidad de 
Sevilla, Apartado 1203, E-41071, Seville, Spain. Electronic address: 
osc-lopez@us.es.

Given the urgent need for developing new therapeutic strategies against chronic 
diseases such as neurodegeneration and cancer, and the evidence of shared 
biochemical pathways linking Alzheimer's disease to certain types of cancer, we 
have designed a novel family of multifaceted compounds to target both diseases. 
For that purpose, isofagomine (a relevant azasugar) - coumarin hybrids were 
prepared and tested in vitro as potential dual-action molecules. Key structural 
variations, including different hydroxyl group substitutions and changes in the 
length of the hydrocarbon linker, had minimal impact on cholinesterase 
inhibition. All compounds exhibited strong inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase 
(BuChE), representing the predominant cholinesterase in moderate-to-advanced 
stages of Alzheimer's disease, with IC50 values in the single-digit micromolar 
concentration range. Additionally, the isofagomine-coumarin hybrids displayed 
remarkable selectivity, up to 177-fold, for human BuChE over human 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Docking simulations predicted derivatives to be 
accommodated within the BuChE binding region. Additionally, the compounds showed 
reduced neurotoxicity and moderate neuroprotection. Furthermore, a direct 
correlation was observed between tether length and antiproliferative activity, 
with the lead compound exhibiting potent effects in the low-micromolar range. 3D 
Holotomographic microscopy, through continuous live-cell imaging, proved mitotic 
arrest followed by apoptotic events to be involved in their mode of action. 
Azasugar-coumarin hybrids constitute promising multifaceted molecules in terms 
of therapeutics or prevention of neurodegeneration and cancer.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111685
PMID: 40759371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


17. Neurosci Lett. 2025 Oct 14;865:138337. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2025.138337.
Epub  2025 Aug 5.

Intranasal insulin administration shows limited tau-targeted effects in 
early-stage APP/PS1 Alzheimer's mice.

Mao YF(1), Chen L(2), Liu JY(3), Guo ZY(4), Lu PL(5), Chen YX(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310016 Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
3316023@zju.edu.cn.
(2)Tonglu County Second People's Hospital, Tonglu 311519 Zhejiang, China. 
Electronic address: 1538725111@qq.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of School of 
Medicine, and International School of Medicine, International Institutes of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Yiwu 322023 Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
22218430@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shandong Second 
Medical University, Weifang 261053 Shandong, China. Electronic address: 
guozhy@sdsmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310016 Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
lplzxa@163.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009 Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
chenyanxing@zju.edu.cn.

Brain insulin signaling deficits contribute to multiple pathologicalfeatures of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD).Intranasal insulin has demonstrated therapeutic 
potential, but its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated 
whether intranasal insulinmodulates tau pathology in early-stage APPswe/PS1dE9 
(APP/PS1) mice.After six weeks of treatment, no significant changes in total or 
phosphorylated tau levels were observed. However, there was a trend toward 
improvement in dysregulated signaling pathways associated with tau kinases. 
These findings suggest that the protective effect of nasal insulin in early AD 
may not primarily be against tau-related neurotoxicity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2025.138337
PMID: 40759310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


18. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Sep 25;353(Pt A):120352. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2025.120352.  Epub 2025 Aug 5.

Baicalin alleviates pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease comorbid with 
type 2 diabetes: Targeting metabolic dysregulation and neuroinflammation.

Song ZY(1), Yu WJ(2), Jin YJ(3), Zhou MF(4), He CX(5), Li Z(6), He JW(7), Chen 
Q(8), Li P(9), Yi Y(10), Cheng SW(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: songzhenyan2013@hnucm.edu.cn.
(2)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: wjyu@stu.hnucm.edu.cn.
(3)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: 1989884317@qq.com.
(4)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: zhouzhou@stu.hnucm.edu.cn.
(5)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: hcx2018@stu.hnucm.edu.cn.
(6)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: 769428761@qq.com.
(7)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: 2421215682@qq.com.
(8)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: 781400637@qq.com.
(9)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment 
of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 
410208, China. Electronic address: 373162392@qq.com.
(10)School of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Hunan University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China. Electronic address: 375248683@qq.com.
(11)Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for Integrated Traditional Chinese and 
Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan, 410208, China; Second Hospital of Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, 
Hunan, 410208, China; Medical School, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Hunan, 410208, China. Electronic address: scheng@hnucm.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Derived from the plant Scutellaria baicalensis 
Georgi, baicalin is a naturally occurring flavonoid, has demonstrated 
anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, hypoglycemic, and lipid-lowering properties. 
While its effects on Alzheimer's disease (AD) or type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 
have been studied individually, its therapeutic role in AD comorbid with T2DM 
remains unclear.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to explore the potential therapeutic 
mechanisms associated with baicalin through a rat model featuring AD combined 
with T2DM.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A dual-pathology rat model was developed using a 
streptozotocin (STZ) and a high-fat dietary regimen injections to induce T2DM, 
followed by intracerebroventricular STZ to induce AD pathology. Behavioral 
tests, biochemical assays, histological analyses, qPCR, and Western blotting 
were used to evaluate baicalin's effects. Untargeted metabolomics was applied to 
profile metabolic alterations, while network pharmacology and molecular docking 
were integrated to predict key targets and pathways. Finally, cellular thermal 
shift assay (CETSA) was conducted to validate the direct binding of baicalin to 
core proteins.
RESULTS: Baicalin significantly improved cognitive performance, ameliorated 
glucose and lipid metabolism, and suppressed neuroinflammation in AD-T2DM rats. 
Metabolomics identified disruptions in energy metabolism, amino acid metabolism, 
and purine metabolism pathways. Network pharmacology analysis revealed ALDH2, 
NOS2, GOT1, GPT, and XDH as key targets associated with these metabolic 
disturbances. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between 
baicalin and the identified targets. qPCR confirmed the regulation of ALDH2 and 
NOS2 gene expression by baicalin, and CETSA experiments further validated the 
thermal stabilization of these proteins, supporting direct interactions in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: Baicalin exerts therapeutic effects by targeting ALDH2 and NOS2 to 
modulate arginine and proline metabolism and regulate key metabolites such as 
GABA and L-arginine. This mechanism improves neuronal function and insulin 
sensitivity, highlighting baicalin as a promising multi-target treatment for AD 
with T2DM.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120352
PMID: 40759295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interests regarding the publication of this 
paper.


19. J Neuroimmunol. 2025 Oct 15;407:578699. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2025.578699. 
Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Fisetin alleviates Aβ-induced neuronal cell ferroptosis by regulating 
Sirt6-mediated deacetylation modification.

Xie Y(1), Li C(2), Zhang Y(2), Liu X(2), Wang W(2), Zheng L(3), Gu X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Nanchang medical College, Nanchang 330052, 
Jiangxi Province, PR China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330006, Jiangxi Province, PR China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Jiangxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Nanchang 
330006, Jiangxi Province, PR China. Electronic address: 602754483@qq.com.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330006, Jiangxi Province, PR China. Electronic address: 
540523118@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: Ferroptosis contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. 
Fisetin, a flavonoid with neuroprotective properties, has shown potential in 
reducing oxidative stress and inflammation. This study investigates the 
protective effects and underlying molecular pathways of fisetin against 
amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced ferroptosis in neuronal cells.
METHODS: HT22 mouse hippocampal neuronal cells were pre-incubated with fisetin 
before exposure to amyloid-β (Aβ). Cell viability was evaluated by Cell Counting 
Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, and lipid peroxidation was measured with the C11-BODIPY 
probe. Protein expression patterns were determined via Western blot analysis. 
Co-immunoprecipitation (CoIP) and ubiquitination assays were used to explore the 
interactions between Sirtuin 6 (Sirt6), nuclear factor erythroid 2-related 
factor 2 (Nrf2), and kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1).
RESULTS: Fisetin pre-treatment significantly alleviated Aβ-induced ferroptosis 
in HT22 cells. Sirt6 upregulation was observed following fisetin treatment, and 
silencing Sirt6 reversed its protective effects on Aβ-induced neuronal cell 
ferroptosis. Mechanistically, Sirt6 deacetylated Nrf2 and enhanced its stability 
by preventing its degradation through Keap1-mediated ubiquitination. As 
expected, fisetin alleviated Aβ-induced ferroptosis in neuronal cells through 
activation of the Sirt6/Nrf2 axis.
CONCLUSION: Fisetin alleviated Aβ-induced neuronal cell ferroptosis by 
activating the Sirt6/Nrf2 axis. These results underscore fisetin's therapeutic 
potential for AD by targeting ferroptosis, providing a new strategy for disease 
intervention.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2025.578699
PMID: 40759059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
agree with the presented findings, have contributed to the work, and declare no 
conflict of interest.


20. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Aug 20;16(16):3082-3095. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00221. Epub 2025 Aug 4.

Targeting the Dectin-1 Receptor in Neuroinflammation: Therapeutic Implications 
for Neuropsychiatric Disorders.

Nascimento EFD(1), Batista PVC(1), Cunha CS(1), Lacerda LRA(1), Moura VC(1), 
Oliveira TQ(1), Filho AJMC(1), de Rezende PHF(1), Macedo DS(1), Vasconcelos 
SMM(1).

Author information:
(1)Drug Research and Development Center, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza 
60430-275, Brazil.

Exploring the role of the pattern recognition receptor Dectin-1 in neurological 
diseases emerges as an important target for understanding the biochemical and 
physiological dynamics of neuropathologies. From this perspective, Dectin-1, 
protein encoded by the CLEC7A gene, stands out for its important role in 
antifungal immunity; however, the receptor also proves crucial in enabling the 
immune response of the central nervous system (CNS). This review highlights how 
Dectin-1 interacts with microglial cells, as well as the implications of these 
interactions in inflammatory, neurodegenerative, and psychiatric processes. In 
this regard, the narrative also revisits relevant discussions on the signaling 
pathways associated with Dectin-1, including the activation of tyrosine-protein 
kinase (Syk) and the production of inflammatory cytokines. It is noteworthy that 
altered expression of Dectin-1 has been observed in various conditions such as 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, thereby contributing to neuroinflammatory 
processes. However, in contrast to this, in depressive disorders, the receptor 
has shown the ability to modulate the inflammatory response, triggering 
antidepressant effects. Therefore, understanding the pluralistic role of 
Dectin-1 in the CNS may offer new scientific perspectives that will enable the 
development of more targeted therapies for neuroinflammatory and 
neurodegenerative diseases in different pathological contexts.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00221
PMCID: PMC12371729
PMID: 40758965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Aug 1;8(8):e2525057. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.25057.

Medicaid Payments and Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Alzheimer Disease Special 
Care Units.

Xu H(1), Li S(2), Bowblis JR(3)(4), Pappadis MR(2)(5), Kuo YF(2)(5), Goodwin 
JS(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)Sealy Center on Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston.
(3)Department of Economics, Farmer School of Business, Miami University, Oxford, 
Ohio.
(4)Scripps Gerontology Center, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
(5)School of Public and Population Health, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston.

IMPORTANCE: Alzheimer disease special care units (ASCUs) are associated with 
improved outcomes for residents with dementia, yet they are unavailable in most 
nursing homes.
OBJECTIVES: To examine racial and ethnic disparities in the availability of 
ASCUs and whether more generous Medicaid payments are associated with reduced 
disparities.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study used 2009-2019 
Certification and Survey Provider Enhanced Reporting data and resident 
assessments from Medicare- and Medicaid-certified nursing homes in the US, as 
well as state Medicaid payment-to-cost ratios for 2019. Statistical analysis was 
performed from September to December 2024.
EXPOSURE: The percentages of Black residents and Hispanic residents in a 
facility and the state mean nursing homes' ratio of Medicaid payment to 
estimated Medicaid cost of care.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The main outcome was whether a nursing home had an 
ASCU. Multivariable logistic regression was conducted on ASCUs, and then 
separate logistic regressions were performed for states with different quartiles 
of Medicaid payment-to-cost ratios.
RESULTS: Most of the 13 229 nursing homes in the study were for profit (9561 
[72.3%]) and were part of a chain (7775 [58.8%]). The overall mean (SD) Medicaid 
payment-to-cost ratio among all states was 0.87 (0.13) (range, 0.58-1.29). Each 
1% increase in the percentage of Black residents was associated with a 0.1% 
decrease in the probability of having an ASCU. Compared with facilities with 0% 
to 0.8% of Black residents, the odds of having an ASCU were 37% lower in nursing 
homes with 4.3% to 15.2% Black residents (odds ratio [OR], 0.63; 95% CI, 
0.53-0.74), and 45% lower in nursing homes with 15.2% or more of Black residents 
(OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.46-0.65). Compared with facilities with no Hispanic 
residents, the odds of having an ASCU were 27% lower in those with 3.7% or more 
of Hispanic residents (OR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.62-0.86). In states with Medicaid 
payment-to-cost ratios between 0.58 and 0.81, nursing homes with 15.2% or more 
of Black residents were 68% less likely to have an ASCU (OR, 0.32; 95% CI, 
0.21-0.50). This difference decreased to 45% in states with Medicaid 
payment-to-cost ratios between 0.82 and 0.94 (OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.44-0.69) and 
almost disappeared in states with Medicaid payment-to-cost ratios greater than 
0.94 (OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.53-1.40). Higher Medicaid payment-to-cost ratios were 
not associated with reduced disparities among Hispanic residents.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This cohort study of nursing homes suggests that 
racial and ethnic disparities in ASCU availability narrowed in states where 
Medicaid payment rates cover a greater share of costs. Racial disparities in 
specialized dementia care may be mitigated and even eliminated by more generous 
Medicaid payments.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.25057
PMCID: PMC12322793
PMID: 40758352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Bowblis 
reported testifying as an expert. Dr Pappadis reported receiving grants from the 
National Institute on Aging and the National Institute on Disability, 
Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research outside the submitted work. No 
other disclosures were reported.


22. Eur J Neurosci. 2025 Aug;62(3):e70214. doi: 10.1111/ejn.70214.

Pro-inflammatory/Anti-Inflammatory Interleukin Imbalance in Iraqi Alzheimer's 
Patients: Implications for Post-Conflict Environmental Exposures.

Hoidy WH(1), Essa SM(1), Al-Saadi MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Education, University of Al-Qadisiyah, 
Al-Diwanyah City, Iraq.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, University 
of Al-Qadisiyah, Al-Diwanyah City, Iraq.

The role of inflammatory processes has been increasingly recognized in the 
pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), especially in populations with particular 
environmental exposures. This study examined the profiles of pro-inflammatory 
(IL-1β, IL-6) and anti-inflammatory (IL-4, IL-10) interleukins in a cohort of 
112 Iraqi AD patients and a control group of 240 age-matched subjects. 
Peripheral blood samples were obtained and analyzed using quantitative real-time 
PCR and ELISA methods, with correlations made to cognitive performance and 
degree of amyloid burden. AD patients showed significant upregulation of IL-1β 
(2.8-fold, p < 0.001) and IL-6 (3.2-fold, p < 0.001) as well as downregulation 
of IL-10 (0.6-fold, p < 0.01). Interleukin 4 expression was unchanged. Striking 
correlations were found between pro-inflammatory cytokine expression and 
cognitive decline measured by the MMSE scores. Increased expression of IL-1β was 
associated with higher PET imaging-derived amyloid-β deposition. Carriers of the 
APOE ε4 allele showed a greater degree of inflammatory marker dysregulation 
compared to non-carriers. A combined model with multiple interleukins achieved 
superb distinguishing capacity (AUC = 0.94) between AD patients and healthy 
controls. This study suggests that dysregulation of inflammation likely plays a 
considerable role in the pathogenesis of AD in the Iraqi population, possibly 
modified by specific environmental exposures due to decades of conflict. The 
connection made between peripheral inflammatory markers and central AD pathology 
underscores the potential value of interleukin expression profiles as accessible 
biomarkers for prognosis and monitoring. Thus, the connection made between 
peripheral inflammatory markers and central AD pathology underscores the 
potential value of interleukin expression profiles as easily obtainable 
biomarkers for diagnosis and monitoring, which may inform future development of 
targeted treatment strategies aimed at modulating inflammation in specific 
populations.

© 2025 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.70214
PMID: 40758321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Asian Nat Prod Res. 2025 Aug 4:1-19. doi: 10.1080/10286020.2025.2539987. 
Online ahead of print.

The mechanism of Yizhi Qingxin formula to improve neuroinflammation in 
Alzheimer's disease by regulating the TLR4/NF‑κB/NLRP3 pathway.

Chen WX(1)(2), Huang QY(1), Sun JH(2), Yang XY(1), Pei H(1), Cao Y(1), Li H(2), 
Ma LN(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100091, China.
(2)Geriatrics Department, Wangjing Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100102, China.

Yizhi Qingxin formula (YQF) is a traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study explored the mechanism of YQF to improve 
AD-related neuroinflammation in vivo and in vitro. The behavioral tests, 
immunohistochemical analysis and Western blot were performed. The present 
results showed that YQF ameliorated cognitive deficits, reduced hippocampal Aβ 
deposition, and decreased the number of GFAP and Iba1-positive cells. The 
results also indicated that YQF suppressed neuroinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, 
IL-1β, IL-6) by inhibiting TLR4/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway. In summary, YQF provides a 
multi-targeted strategy for AD-related neuroinflammation, which may address 
limitations of single-pathway therapies.

DOI: 10.1080/10286020.2025.2539987
PMID: 40757693


24. Eur J Neurol. 2025 Aug;32(8):e70322. doi: 10.1111/ene.70322.

Neurodevelopmental Vulnerability in Alzheimer's Disease and Frontotemporal 
Dementia.

Siguier PLM(1)(2), Planton M(1)(3)(4), Pages B(3), Gérard F(3), Rafiq M(1)(3), 
Wolfrum M(3), Archambault O(2), Damour A(2), Guidolin V(1), Pefferkorn P(2), 
Danet L(1)(3), Virchien L(3), Magnin E(4)(5)(6), Richard-Mornas A(4)(7)(8), 
Sauvée M(4)(9)(10), Thomas-Antérion C(4)(11), Mouton S(4)(12), Jucla M(2), 
Pariente J(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)ToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center, UMR 1214, Université de Toulouse, 
INSERM, Paul Sabatier University (UT3), Pavillon BAUDOT, TOULOUSE Cedex 3, 
France.
(2)Laboratoire de Neuropsycholinguistique, EA4156, Université de Toulouse, Jean 
Jaurès University (UT2), Toulouse Cedex 9, France.
(3)Department of Neurology, Neuroscience Centre, Toulouse-Purpan University 
Hospital, Toulouse Cedex 9, France.
(4)GREDEVad Commission (Groupe de réflexion sur l'évaluation des troubles 
neurodéveloppementaux de l'adulte) of the GRECO (Groupe de réflexion sur 
l'évaluation cognitive), France.
(5)Université Marie et Louis Pasteur, INSERM, UMR 1322 LINC, Besançon, France.
(6)Centre Mémoire Ressources et Recherche (CMRR), Centre neurodéveloppemental 
Adulte «Hors Normes», Service de Neurologie, CHRU Besançon, Besançon, France.
(7)INSERM U1028/CNRS UMR5292, équipe TIGER, Centre de Recherche en Neurosciences 
de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(8)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Service de Neurologie Fonctionnelle et 
Epileptologie, Lyon, France.
(9)Centre Mémoire de Ressources et de Recherche, Pôle de Psychiatrie et 
Neurologie, CHU, Grenoble, France.
(10)Université Grenoble Alpes, Université Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS UMR 5105, 
Laboratoire de Psychologie et Neurocognition (LPNC), Grenoble, France.
(11)Plein Ciel, Université Lyon 2, Lyon, France.
(12)Cabinet de Neurologie Libérale, Neuville Sur Saone, France.

BACKGROUND: Neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) may influence the course of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, prior 
studies have focused on specific pairs of NDDs and variants of AD/FTD. Adopting 
a dimensional approach to NDDs and considering the heterogeneity of AD/FTD, we 
investigated the association between a neurodevelopmental vulnerability (DV) and 
the clinical presentation and age at onset of AD/FTD.
METHODS: We prospectively and consecutively recruited 84 AD/FTD participants and 
41 matched controls. AD/FTD participants were classified into typical (amnestic 
AD, behavioral FTD) and atypical (primary progressive aphasia, frontal and 
posterior variants of AD, right temporal variant of FTD, amnestic FTD) 
presentations. Participants underwent a neuropsychological assessment and 
answered a novel questionnaire on NDDs symptoms. Using k-means clustering based 
on the questionnaire, participants were assigned to a DV+ (with 
neurodevelopmental vulnerability) or a DV- (without) cluster. This data-driven 
approach enabled an unbiased classification of individuals with a DV, beyond 
traditional diagnostic labels.
RESULTS: DV frequencies did not differ between the AD/FTD (18%) and control 
(15%) χ2 = 0.205; p = 0.651); and between typical (21%) and atypical (11%) 
subgroups (Fisher's test, p = 0.184). However, in DV+ patients, symptom onset 
occurred 8.0 years earlier than in DV- patients (95% CI [-14, -3.0]; p = 0.005), 
with a median onset age of 58 years (IQR: 15).
CONCLUSIONS: A DV could favor early-onset AD/FTD, but may not affect 
susceptibility to typical and atypical variants of AD/FTD. The underlying 
neurophysiological processes involved require future investigation, with 
implications for precision medicine and individualized treatment strategies.
STUDY REGISTRATION NUMBERS: RnIPH 2023-71 and Research Ethics Committee file No. 
2023_765.

© 2025 The Author(s). European Journal of Neurology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.70322
PMCID: PMC12319707
PMID: 40757649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


25. NPJ Dement. 2025;1(1):18. doi: 10.1038/s44400-025-00015-1. Epub 2025 Jul 30.

High inter-rater reliability in consensus diagnoses and overall assessment in 
the Asian Cohort for Alzheimer's Disease Study.

Alkhodair Y(1)(2)(3), Hsiung GR(1)(2), Tee BL(4)(5), Ho PC(6)(7), Au Yeung 
P(1)(2), Yu WH(8), Peavy G(9), Henderson VW(10)(11), Choi YB(12)(13), Li C(14), 
Reyes-Dumeyer D(15), Lee H(16), Kukull WA(17); Clinical Core of the Asian Cohort 
for Alzheimer’s Disease (ACAD); Asian Cohort for Alzheimer’s Disease Study.

Collaborators: Yu WH(8), Feldman HH(9)(18), Gu Y(19), Hsiung GR(1)(2), Leung 
L(14), Liu C(20), Mayeux R(21), Peavy GM(9), Tee BL(4)(5), Wong EC(20), Yang 
HS(22)(23), Yokoyama JS(4)(24), Jun GR(25)(26)(27), Park V(28), Chui HC(20), 
Wang LS(6), Chow TW(6), Foroud T(29), Grill JD(30), Kirsch M(6), Lee WP(6), Li 
M(31), Park VMT(28), Schellenberg GD(6), Torres M(32), Tzuang M(33), Vardarajan 
BN(15), Varma R(32), Yau E(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, University of British Columbia, S151 - 2211 Wesbrook 
Mall, UBC Hospital, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5 Canada.
(2)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre of Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
2215 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3 Canada.
(3)Neuroscience Centre of Excellence, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and 
Research Centre, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, 1651 4th St Suite 212, 
San Francisco, CA 94158 USA.
(5)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, 1651 
4th St, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA.
(6)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 3700 Hamilton Walk, Richards 
Building D101, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA.
(7)The Leonard and Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3641 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Medical 
Sciences Building, King's College Cir Room 4207, Toronto, ON M5S 1A8 Canada.
(9)Department of Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, 9500 
Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University, 291 
Campus Drive, Li Ka Shing Building, Stanford, CA 94305 USA.
(11)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 291 
Campus Drive, Li Ka Shing Building, Stanford, CA 94305 USA.
(12)Englewood Health, 350 Engle Street, Englewood, NJ 07631 USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, 90 Bergen 
Street, Doctors Office Center, Suite 5200, Newark, NJ 07101 USA.
(14)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, New York, NY 10029 USA.
(15)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Taub Institute of Aging Brain and Department 
of Neurology at Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032 
USA.
(16)Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, 433 1st Ave, New York, 
NY 10010 USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, 3980 15th Ave NE, 
Seattle, WA 98195 USA.
(18)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, University of California, San Diego, 
9500 Gilman Dr, MC0949 San Diego, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, 710 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY 10032 USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine at University of Southern 
California, 1975 Zonal Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA.
(21)Department of Neurology and the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University, Vagelos College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, 710 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032 USA.
(22)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, 60 Fenwood Road, Hale Building for Transformative 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02115 USA.
(23)Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St, Boston, MA 02115 USA.
(24)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, 
San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA.
(25)Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University School of 
Medicine, 72 East Concord Street E200, Boston, MA 02118 USA.
(26)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston University School of Medicine, 85 E 
Concord St, Boston, MA 02118 USA.
(27)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 715 
Albany St, Boston, MA 02118 USA.
(28)University of California, San Francisco School of Nursing, 2 Koret Way, San 
Francisco, CA 94143 USA.
(29)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, 340 West 10th Street, Fairbanks Hall, Suite 6200, Indianapolis, IN 
46202 USA.
(30)University of California Irvine Institute for Memory Impairments and 
Neurological Disorders, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA USA.
(31)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 423 Guardian Drive, Blockley Hall, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA.
(32)Southern California Eye Institute, CHA Hollywood Presbyterian Medical 
Center, 1300 North Vermont Avenue, Doctors Tower, Ste 101, Los Angeles, CA 90027 
USA.
(33)Department of Community Health Systems, University of California, San 
Francisco School of Nursing, 2 Koret Way, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA.

The Asian Cohort for Alzheimer's Disease (ACAD) study is a collaborative 
investigation of genetic and non-genetic risk factors for AD among Asian 
Americans and Canadians. Harmonization of diagnostic procedures across 
recruiting sites will be key to the dataset's efficacy. Forty-two participants 
who completed the consensus process across seven ACAD recruiting sites were 
re-reviewed by two further impartial raters. Cohen's Kappa coefficient was used 
to evaluate inter-rater agreement. The findings reveal the highest level of 
observed agreement at 88% and a Cohen's Kappa of 0.835, among site consensus 
participants and two levels of external review, affirming the reliability of our 
protocol. ACAD has developed a data collection and diagnostic process that 
allows consistency among sites that serve Asians speaking Korean, Chinese, and 
Vietnamese languages.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1038/s44400-025-00015-1
PMCID: PMC12310511
PMID: 40757175

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing interests.


26. Front Stroke. 2025;4:1563924. doi: 10.3389/fstro.2025.1563924. Epub 2025 May
8.

Models and mechanisms of post-stroke dementia and cognitive impairment.

Khan R(1)(2), Devlin P(1), Urayama A(1), Ritzel RM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, United States.
(2)University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center GSBS, Houston, TX, United 
States.

Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability globally, with significant 
long-term impacts such as post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI). PSCI affects 
up to one-third of stroke survivors, substantially increasing their risk of 
dementia, especially after recurrent strokes. Despite advances in acute stroke 
treatments, the mechanisms underlying PSCI remain poorly understood. Emerging 
evidence highlights that PSCI arises from a complex interplay of vascular 
damage, neurodegenerative pathologies, and chronic inflammation. This review 
explores the epidemiology and clinical characteristics of PSCI, emphasizing the 
role of age, education, vascular integrity, and comorbidities such as diabetes. 
Additionally, we examine experimental findings that utilize rodent models to 
elucidate the time course and biological mechanisms of PSCI. Notable 
contributions include insights from transgenic Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse 
models, revealing how vascular and amyloid pathologies accelerate cognitive 
decline post-stroke. Moreover, studies on neuroinflammation and immune 
responses, such as those involving TREM2, underscore the significance of 
inflammatory pathways in PSCI. By integrating clinical and experimental 
findings, this literature review provides a comprehensive understanding of PSCI 
mechanisms, offering a foundation for developing targeted diagnostic tools and 
therapeutic interventions to mitigate the long-term cognitive effects of stroke.

DOI: 10.3389/fstro.2025.1563924
PMCID: PMC12315578
PMID: 40757092

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


27. Alzheimers Dement Behav Socioecon Aging. 2025 Jun;1(2):e70008. doi: 
10.1002/bsa3.70008. Epub 2025 Apr 6.

Guided by the community: Insights on recruitment science from the African 
Americans Fighting Alzheimer's in Midlife (AA-FAIM) Project.

Gooding DC(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Carter FP(3)(4), Zuelsdorff M(3)(6), Gee A(5)(7), 
Anthony RL Jr(5)(8), Boustead B(5), Russell T(5)(9)(10), Chin NA(3)(4)(11), 
Clark L(3)(4)(11)(12), Cornelius K(3)(4), Asthana S(3)(4)(11), Johnson 
SC(3)(4)(11), Gleason CE(3)(4)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, UW-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, UW-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, UW-Madison 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)Black Leaders for Brain Health, Wisconsin ADRC, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(6)School of Nursing, UW-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(7)Nehemiah Center for Urban Leadership Development, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(8)Urban League of Greater Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(9)Wisconsin Department of Health Services, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(10)School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, 
USA.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, UW School of Medicine and Public Health, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(12)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Middleton Veterans 
Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Although Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRDs) are 
disproportionately high in Black/African American (AA) individuals, this 
population is under-included in biomarker studies and clinical trials. This 
underrepresentation contributes to health disparities in treatment and disease 
outcomes. The Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC) and the 
Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention (WRAP) at the University of 
Wisconsin-Madison have been successfully conducting the African Americans 
Fighting Alzheimer's in Midlife (AA-FAIM) Project since 2016. The AA-FAIM 
Project aims to promote the timely, valid detection of ADRD for Black/AA groups 
and to increase their inclusion in ADRD research.
METHOD: We describe the infrastructure and engagement strategies of AA-FAIM, a 
longitudinal research program focused on examining and reducing the health 
disparities observed in Black/AA individuals facing risk for ADRD. We describe 
practical, sustainable methods used to meet our recruitment, enrollment, 
participation, and retention goals.
RESULTS: We report enrollment numbers as evidence of the effectiveness of this 
work. We attribute our success to several strengths. First, AA-FAIM incorporates 
the principles of community-based participatory research (CBPR), including 
strong community partnerships and an active, engaged advisory board. Second, the 
program is guided by the Participant and Relationship-Centered Research 
Engagement (PRCRE) and the STEPS models. Third, AA-FAIM uses creative, 
culturally respectful programs. Fourth, a key element is the partnership between 
the Academy and the people embedded within the community.
DISCUSSION: We discuss our experiences establishing and maintaining the AA-FAIM 
Project and offer insights to increase the representation and inclusion of 
Black/AA individuals in ADRD studies.

DOI: 10.1002/bsa3.70008
PMCID: PMC12318541
PMID: 40757035

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT Dr. Chin received 
consulting fees from NewAmsterdam Pharma. Dr. Clark is a co-chair for AGREED 
symptomatic subcommittee and receives travel funds from IMPACT-AD and the 
Alzheimer’s Association. Dr. Gleason is a member of several external advisory 
boards and chair of an NIA-funded IDSMB associated with the University of 
Pittsburgh. Dr. Gooding received honoraria from Elsevier for her work as Deputy 
Editor (Psychiatry Research). Dr. Johnson received consulting fees from Enigma 
Biomedical and Eli Lilly. There are no other conflicts of interest to report.


28. Theranostics. 2025 Jun 20;15(15):7467-7488. doi: 10.7150/thno.112213. 
eCollection 2025.

Mn(3)O(4) nanozyme-based anti-inflammatory therapy modulates microglial 
phenotype by downregulating TLR4/NOX2 expression and further alleviates 
Alzheimer's disease pathology.

Xie J(1), Cao K(1), Liu L(1), Zhang L(2), Yang Y(3), Gong H(1)(4), Luo 
H(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory for Biomedical Photonics, Wuhan National Laboratory for 
Optoelectronics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, Key Laboratory of 
Biomedical Engineering of Hainan Province, School of Biomedical Engineering, 
Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medicine, Key Laboratory of 
Education Ministry of China/Hubei Province for Neurological Disorders, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, 
China.
(4)HUST-Suzhou Institute for Brainsmatics, JITRI, Suzhou 215123, China.

Rationale: Evidence shows that neuroinflammation mediated by microglial 
activation plays an important role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. 
However, the relationship between microglial phenotype and fibrillar β-amyloid 
(fAβ) pathology in anti-inflammatory treatment of AD remains unclear. Methods: 
We designed a water-soluble Mn3O4 nanozymes and demonstrated its ability to 
reverse lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced microglial transition from M1 to M2 
phenotype by clearing reactive oxygen species (ROS). Results: In 5×FAD 
transgenic mice, intranasal (IN) instillation of Mn3O4 nanozymes initially 
promoted M2 microglial polarization and significantly reduced neuroinflammation 
after 4 weeks of treatment. After 8 weeks of continuous treatment, they further 
alleviate fAβ pathology and improved learning and memory deficits in 5×FAD mice. 
The excellent anti-inflammatory effect of Mn3O4 nanozymes is achieved by 
inhibiting the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
phosphate (NAPDH) oxidase isoform 2 (NOX2) pathway to clear ROS. Conclusions: 
This study reveals the molecular mechanism of Mn3O4 nanozymes modulating 
microglia phenotype to attenuate neuroinflammation primarily through inhibition 
of the TLR4/NOX2 pathway and highlights the temporal sequence of 
anti-inflammatory treatment in regulating microglial phenotype and improving fAβ 
pathology, providing new insights for the anti-inflammatory treatment of AD and 
other neurological diseases.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.112213
PMCID: PMC12315813
PMID: 40756364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


29. PCN Rep. 2025 Aug 3;4(3):e70174. doi: 10.1002/pcn5.70174. eCollection 2025
Sep.

Corticobasal degeneration preceded by cognitive impairment and apathy: An 
autopsy case report.

Hirose S(1)(2), Kobayashi R(3), Hatakeyama S(1), Kawakatsu S(4), Suzuki A(3), 
Kawanishi C(2), Utsumi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry Sunagawa City Medical Center Sunagawa Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry Sapporo Medical University Graduate School of 
Medicine Sapporo Japan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry Yamagata University School of Medicine Yamagata 
Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Aizu Medical Center Fukushima Medical 
University Aizuwakamatsu Japan.

BACKGROUND: Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) presents with a range of clinical 
phenotypes, making diagnosis challenging. We report the clinical course of a 
patient with autopsy-confirmed CBD who initially presented with cognitive 
impairment and apathy, without motor symptoms.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 51-year-old man presented to our hospital with decreased 
motivation, amnesia, and executive dysfunction. Memory disturbance and frontal 
lobe dysfunction were evident on examination. No motor symptoms such as 
Parkinsonism, apraxia, or oculomotor abnormalities were apparent. Magnetic 
resonance imaging and brain perfusion imaging revealed mild atrophy and 
hypoperfusion in the left frontal lobe. Based on these findings, he was 
initially diagnosed with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. However, 
due to the presence of memory impairment, Alzheimer's disease was also 
considered in the differential diagnosis. At the age of 53 years, he began 
experiencing frequent falls, followed by rapid progression of extrapyramidal 
symptoms. Dopamine-transporter (DAT) imaging revealed a marked reduction in DAT 
availability in the striatum. The patient died of aspiration pneumonia at the 
age of 55 years. Neuropathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of CBD, 
showing abundant tau pathology in the frontal lobes and basal ganglia.
CONCLUSION: In this case, abundant tau pathology in the frontal lobe 
corresponded with early cognitive impairment, including frontal lobe 
dysfunction, whereas abundant tau pathology in the basal ganglia corresponded 
with rapid exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms and marked reduction in DAT 
availability. Clinicians should be aware that patients with CBD without motor 
symptoms may seek treatment at outpatient clinics specializing in dementia.

© 2025 The Author(s). Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences Reports published by 
John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Psychiatry and 
Neurology.

DOI: 10.1002/pcn5.70174
PMCID: PMC12318368
PMID: 40756022

Conflict of interest statement: R.K. has received honoraria for lectures from 
PDR Pharma and Nihon Medi‐Physics, as well as research support from Nihon 
Medi‐Physics. The other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. Regen Ther. 2025 Jul 26;30:439-445. doi: 10.1016/j.reth.2025.07.006.
eCollection  2025 Dec.

Mesenchymal stem cell application in Alzheimer's disease.

Feng Q(1), Chen F(1), Liu R(1), Li D(1), Feng H(1), Yang J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Nursing School, North Henan Medical University, Xinxiang, 453003, China.
(2)Guangdong Nephrotic Drug Engineering Technology Research Center, Institute of 
Consun Co. for Chinese Medicine in Kidney Diseases, Guangzhou, 510530, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a type of degenerative disease that primarily 
affects in the central nervous system of elderly or pre-elderly individuals. The 
symptoms of Alzheimer's disease include memory impairment, aphasia, loss of 
function, dementia, and impairment of visual spatial ability, which in turn 
affects the physical health of patients. Mesenchymal stem cell therapy is a 
branch of regenerative medicine that primarily utilizes stem cells or their 
derivatives to stimulate the body's own healing process and repair damaged, 
diseased, or injured tissues. Its utilization in the treatment of autoimmune 
diseases and neurological disorders has been extensively documented. This review 
summarizes the preclinical and clinical applications of mesenchymal stem cells 
in AD, their underlying mechanisms and the application limitations of their 
application and potential solutions. It is hoped that researchers in this field 
will find it a useful foundation for further study of mesenchymal stem cell 
therapy.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.reth.2025.07.006
PMCID: PMC12318309
PMID: 40756017

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declared that there was no the 
conflict of interests in this manuscript.


31. Nanotechnol Sci Appl. 2025 Jul 28;18:319-358. doi: 10.2147/NSA.S500407. 
eCollection 2025.

Safety Profile of Intravenous Ferulic Acid Nanoparticles: Acute Toxicity and 
Neurological Effects in Sprague-Dawley Rats.

Huang H(#)(1)(2), Xuan Y(#)(3), Ma ZC(4).

Author information:
(1)GCP Institutional Office, The First People's Hospital of Neijiang, Neijiang, 
Sichuan, 641000, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Chengdu Qingbaijiang District People's 
Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610399, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of the 4th Division, Peking University School and Hospital of 
Stomatology & National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases. 22 
Zhongguancun South Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, People's Republic 
of China.
(4)Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, 100850, People's Republic 
of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Ferulic acid (FA) exhibits therapeutic potential for various 
disorders, but its clinical application is hindered by poor bioavailability and 
solubility. This study aimed to develop and evaluate FA-loaded lipid 
nanoparticles (FA-LNPs) as a safe and efficient drug delivery system.
METHODS: FA-LNPs were prepared via an optimized active loading method. The 
Morris water maze test was conducted to evaluate FA efficacy against LPS-induced 
cognitive impairment in rats. Comprehensive neurotoxicity assessment was 
performed in three brain regions (striatum, hippocampus, and cerebellum-brain 
stem) using multiple staining techniques (LFB, GFAP, IBA-1, and Fluoro-Jade) to 
evaluate myelin integrity, glial activation, and neuronal degeneration. Acute 
toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and network pharmacology analysis were conducted to 
assess safety profiles and potential mechanisms.
RESULTS: FA-LNPs were successfully prepared using an optimized active loading 
method, achieving high drug loading (≥4 mg/mL), superior encapsulation 
efficiency (EE%) ≥80%, and uniform particle size distribution (<200 nm, 
PDI=0.053), zeta potential of +5.97 mV (Quality Factor = 1.701), excellent 
storage stability over two weeks, and was scaled up for batch production. The 
Morris water maze test revealed an effective FA concentration of 50 mg/kg, with 
FA-LNPs achieving 46.5 mg/kg through active loading method. Toxicological 
studies demonstrated favorable safety profiles. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed 
a prolonged elimination half-life (12.8 ± 1.88 hours) and moderate systemic 
clearance (0.535 ± 0.0851 L/h/kg). Short-term administration did not elicit 
significant neuroprotection. Network pharmacology analysis identified 141 
potential therapeutic targets and five key proteins (EGFR, ESR1, PTGS2, CTNNB1, 
and STAT3), with molecular docking confirming favorable binding energies (-7.6 
to -5.2 kcal/mol).
CONCLUSION: FA-LNPs enhanced FA's bioavailability without apparent systemic 
toxicity or neurotoxicity. While safe for short-term use, longer treatment 
durations may be necessary to observe potential neuroprotective benefits and 
toxicity. This study provides a foundation for further investigation of FA-LNPs 
as a promising drug delivery system for neurological disorders.

© 2025 Huang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/NSA.S500407
PMCID: PMC12315901
PMID: 40756009

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


32. Cogn Neurodyn. 2025 Dec;19(1):120. doi: 10.1007/s11571-025-10310-5. Epub 2025
 Jul 30.

Differential Impact of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation on 
Alzheimer's Disease Symptomology: Evidence from Electrovestibulography Does 
repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation treatment alter Alzheimer's disease 
symptomology? a clue to show who will benefit.

Dastgheib ZA(1), Lithgow BJ(1), Moussavi ZK(1).

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic and Neurological Processing Research Laboratory, Biomedical 
Engineering Program, University of Manitoba, Riverview Health Centre, Manitoba, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has shown 
promise in enhancing cognitive function through neuroplasticity. This study 
investigates the impact of rTMS on Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD with 
cerebrovascular disease (AD-CVD) symptomologies, using Electrovestibulography 
(EVestG).
METHODOLOGY: Participants were recruited from a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial on rTMS efficacy for mild to moderate AD. 
Thirty-five individuals who volunteered for the EVestG study (28 received active 
rTMS and 7 the sham treatment) were recorded at baseline, post-treatment, and 
two months' follow-up. EVestG recordings were analyzed to calculate normalized 
probability (NP) values for AD and AD-CVD symptomologies and compare with 
standard cognitive outcome.
RESULTS: Changes in NP values from pre to post active treatment showed improved 
participants exhibited opposite trends in AD and AD-CVD symptomologies compared 
to non-improved participants with a decrease in NPAD-CVD and a slight increase 
in NPAD value. Significant associations were found between changes in cognitive 
score and NP values, even after adjusting for age, sex, and multiple 
comparisons, indicating that patients with higher certainty of AD diagnosis 
(versus AD-CVD) were more likely to benefit from rTMS.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest rTMS cognitive improvement may result from 
reduced AD-CVD symptomatology, especially in patients with higher certainty of 
AD diagnoses, potentially due to increased cerebral blood flow (CBF).
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s11571-025-10310-5.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-025-10310-5
PMCID: PMC12311084
PMID: 40756002

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe author Brian Lithgow has 
less than 0.5% shares in company NeuralDX Pty. Ltd. No other authors have any 
competing interest.


33. Food Sci Nutr. 2025 Aug 1;13(8):e70563. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.70563. eCollection 
2025 Aug.

The Beneficial Effects of Berberine on Brain Functions in Age-Related 
Neurological Disorders: From Molecular Signaling to Treatment.

Wang X(1), Hou R(1), Chen Z(2), Wang X(2), Malek M(3), Wang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical College Xijing University Xi'an Shaanxi China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, the Second Affiliated Hospital Xi'an Jiaotong 
University Xi'an Shaanxi China.
(3)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.

Berberine (BBR), a naturally occurring compound with diverse medicinal 
properties, is emerging as a compelling candidate for managing age-related 
central nervous system conditions. Preclinical studies have extensively explored 
its impact on neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, 
Alzheimer's disease, and Huntington's disease, revealing its capacity to 
modulate key pathological processes. Mechanistically, BBR is shown to mitigate 
neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and endoplasmic reticulum stress, thereby 
reducing neuronal damage and apoptosis. While these mechanistic insights and 
preclinical data are robust, clinical evidence remains nascent, necessitating 
further rigorous investigation to fully understand BBR's therapeutic efficacy 
and translate its promise into clinical practice. This narrative review provides 
a comprehensive examination of BBR's application in treating neurological 
conditions, emphasizing its molecular signaling pathways and critically 
evaluating the current translational landscape. It also identifies promising 
directions for future research into BBR's neuroprotective roles.

© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.70563
PMCID: PMC12317116
PMID: 40755499

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


34. Folia Neuropathol. 2025;63(2):138-147. doi: 10.5114/fn.2025.151824.

Neuregulin 2 reversed astrocytosis in the spinal cord in a mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Liu C(1), Xie Q(2), Xu JP(2), Hua KY(1), Zhao WJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, P.R. China.
(2)Center for Neuroscience, Shantou University Medical College, Shantou, 
Guangdong, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Cell Biology, Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu, P.R. China.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is classified as a neurodegenerative 
disorder without efficacious therapeutic interventions. Accumulating evidence 
has demonstrated the deposition of b-amyloid peptide (Ab) in the spinal cord in 
several mouse AD models. Neuregulin 2 (Nrg2), structurally homologous to 
neuregulin 1 (Nrg1), exerts a regulatory influence over various biological 
processes within the nervous system. However, the neuroprotective role of Nrg2 
in the spinal cord in AD remains unclear.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) was employed to confirm 
the expression of mutated amyloid precursor protein (APP) in APPswe mice. 
Immunohistochemical staining was used to compare the differences between 
wild-type and APPswe mice in APP and GFAP expression. We applied western blot to 
test the changes of ErbB4, Akt1, and Erk1/2 activation, as well as that of GFAP 
in response to recombinant Nrg2 (rNrg2) treatment in the spinal cord in APPswe 
mice.
RESULTS: In the current study, we observed that mutated APP mRNA level was 
upregulated, and astrocytes were activated in the spinal cord of APPswe 
transgenic mice. rNrg2 treatment down-regulated astrocyte activation, as 
indicated by the reduced level of GFAP. Meanwhile, Nrg2 treatment enhanced the 
phosphorylation-mediated activation of ErbB4, Akt1, and Erk1/2 in most of the 
spinal cord segments.
CONCLUSIONS: These combined results suggest the involvement of astrocytosis in 
the spinal cord of APPswe transgenic mice. Neuregulin 2, when administered 
exogenously, may represent a potential strategy for preventing and treating 
AD-induced astrocytosis in the spinal cord.

DOI: 10.5114/fn.2025.151824
PMID: 40755338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nurs Open. 2025 Aug;12(8):e70288. doi: 10.1002/nop2.70288.

The Effect of Psychological Resilience and Self-Efficacy on Caregiver Burden: A 
Cross-Sectional Study Among Caregivers of People With Alzheimer's Disease.

Kocabaş D(1), Karaçar Y(2), Barçin NE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Management, Akdeniz University, Antalya, Turkey.
(2)Department of Psychiatric Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Akdeniz University, 
Antalya, Turkey.
(3)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine Akdeniz University, Antalya, 
Turkey.

AIMS: The aim of this study is to determine the psychological resilience and 
self-efficacy levels of caregivers of individuals with Alzheimer's disease and 
to examine the effects of these variables on the caregiver burden.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional, quantitative design was used.
METHODS: The study was conducted in the neurology outpatient clinic of a 
university hospital between March and July 2022. The sample of the study 
consisted of caregivers of 105 individuals diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. 
Data were collected using the "Zarit Burden Interview," the "Revised Scale for 
Caregiving Self-Efficacy," and the "Resilience Scale Short Form." In the study, 
descriptive statistics and Pearson correlation analysis were employed, and the 
stepwise multiple regression model was applied.
RESULTS: It was determined that caregivers had a moderate to severe caregiving 
burden (43.57 ± 16.58) and a moderate level of psychological resilience 
(20.24 ± 5.96) and self-efficacy (62.84 ± 15.96). The stepwise regression 
analysis results showed that a lower mini mental state score (β = -0.821; 
p < 0.001), low caregiver income status (β = -0.201; p < 0.008), inadequate 
social support (β = -0.155; p < 0.030), shorter duration of Alzheimer's disease 
diagnosis (β = -0.323; p < 0.001), advanced age (β = -0.299; p < 0.001), and 
prolonged caregiving (β = -0.216; p < 0.005) were the main predictors of 
caregiver burden. In addition, the levels of caregiver's self-efficacy in 
obtaining respite (β = -0.340; p < 0.001), psychological resilience (β = -0.293; 
p < 0.001), and self-efficacy in controlling upsetting thoughts (β = -0.240; 
p < 0.001) about caregiving predicted caregiver burden significantly.
CONCLUSION: The resilience and self-efficacy levels of caregivers predicted 
caregiver burden significantly. As the psychological resilience and 
self-efficacy levels of caregivers increase, caregiver burden may decrease 
significantly.
PATIENT OR PUBLIC CONTRIBUTION: PATIENT OR PUBLIC CONTRIBUTION: Interviews were 
conducted with the research participants to collect data. Our findings can be 
used to develop interventions and coping strategies to reduce the care burden of 
caregivers of individuals with Alzheimer's disease and to improve their 
resilience and self-efficacy.
REPORTING METHOD: The results were reported in accordance with STROBE 
guidelines.

© 2025 The Author(s). Nursing Open published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nop2.70288
PMCID: PMC12320124
PMID: 40755264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. J Diabetes. 2025 Aug;17(8):e70136. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.70136.

Periodontal Disease: A Contributing Factor to Adverse Outcome in Diabetes.

El Chaar E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Pennsylvania, Denta Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Periodontal disease is a prevalent and chronic inflammatory condition 
increasingly recognized for its systemic implications beyond oral health. While 
traditionally confined to dentistry, recent evidence reveals strong associations 
between periodontitis and chronic systemic conditions such as cardiovascular 
disease, diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, 
Alzheimer's disease, and various cancers. Mechanistic studies have identified 
plausible biological pathways, including systemic dissemination of periodontal 
pathogens and immune mediators, which can exacerbate distant organ inflammation 
and dysfunction. Experimental models highlight how oral bacteria influence 
immune responses, disrupt gut and vascular homeostasis, and contribute to 
oncogenesis and autoimmunity. Notably, bidirectional relationships, such as 
those between periodontitis and diabetes, underscore the need for integrated 
care approaches. Effective periodontal therapy has demonstrated systemic 
benefits, including improved glycemic control and reduced inflammation. Given 
the mounting evidence, periodontal disease should be approached as a critical 
component of systemic health, necessitating interdisciplinary collaboration 
among healthcare providers to optimize patient outcomes and public health.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Diabetes published by Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai 
JiaoTong University School of Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.70136
PMCID: PMC12319149
PMID: 40755166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has nothing to report. The author 
declares no conflicts of interest.


37. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70546. doi: 10.1002/alz.70546.

Multimorbidity in dementia: Current perspectives and future challenges.

Stirland LE(1)(2), Choate R(3)(4), Zanwar PP(5), Zhang P(6)(7), Watermeyer 
TJ(8)(9), Valletta M(10), Torso M(11), Tamburin S(12), Saeed U(13)(14), Ridgway 
GR(11), Moukaled S(15), Lusk JB(16)(17), Loi SM(18), Littlejohns TJ(19), Kuźma 
E(20), James SN(21), Grande G(10), Foote IF(22), Cousins KAQ(23), Butler J(24), 
AbuHamdia A(25), Avelino-Silva TJ(2)(26)(27), Suryadevara V(28).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Institute of Neuroscience and Cardiovascular 
Research, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California San Francisco Memory 
and Aging Center, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, College of Public 
Health, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.
(4)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, 
USA.
(5)Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy, Texas A&M University, Kingsville, 
Texas, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.
(7)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(8)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health & Life Sciences, Northumbria 
University, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.
(9)Edinburgh Dementia Prevention, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(10)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(11)Oxford Brain Diagnostics Ltd, Oxford, UK.
(12)Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, GB Rossi 
Hospital, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(13)Institute of Medical Science, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(14)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(15)Department of Epidemiology, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
(16)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(17)Duke-UNC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of North 
Carolina-Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(18)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychiatry Centre, University of Melbourne 
and Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(19)Nuffield Department of Population Health, Big Data Institute, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(20)Albertinen Krankenhaus/Albertinen Haus gGmbH, Academic Teaching Hospital of 
the Faculty of Medicine, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(21)MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing, University College London, London, 
UK.
(22)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, 
Colorado, USA.
(23)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(24)School of Psychology, University of Sunderland, Sunderland, UK.
(25)Division of Genomics and Precision Medicine, College of Health and Life 
Sciences, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Doha, Qatar.
(26)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(27)Laboratorio de Investigacao Medica em Envelhecimento (LIM-66), Servico de 
Geriatria, Setor Azul (Clinica Medica), Hospital das Clinicas da Faculdade de 
Medicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(28)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford (MIPS), 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.

Multimorbidity-the co-occurrence of two or more chronic health 
conditions-affects > 86% of people with dementia. It is associated with 
cognitive and functional decline, reduced health-related quality of life, 
increased health-care use, and higher mortality. The relationship between 
multimorbidity and dementia is potentially bidirectional; conditions such as 
hypertension and diabetes increase the risk of developing dementia, and 
cognitive impairment can complicate their management. This complexity presents 
challenges in health care and research, affecting treatment decisions and often 
leading to the exclusion of these individuals from clinical trials. 
Understanding multimorbidity through long-term prospective studies is crucial to 
clarify its relationship with dementia. Investigating specific disease 
combinations, environmental and genetic factors, and their impacts on cognitive 
health will guide the development of effective prediction models and inclusive 
intervention strategies for diverse global populations across the life course. 
HIGHLIGHTS: Multimorbidity affects > 86% of individuals with dementia, worsening 
outcomes. The relationship between multimorbidity and dementia is potentially 
bidirectional. Chronic conditions hinder dementia management and clinical trial 
inclusion. Life-course multimorbidity research is key to dementia risk reduction 
strategies. Prospective studies are needed to improve prediction models and 
interventions.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70546
PMCID: PMC12319240
PMID: 40755143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
interests: G.R.R. and M.T. are currently employed at a company, Oxford Brain 
Diagnostics Ltd. All other authors declare no competing interests. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


38. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.2174/0115672050390340250716061313. 
Online ahead of print.

Integration of Neuroimaging and Molecular Biomarkers in the Diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's Disease and Frontotemporal Dementia: The Promise of fMRI.

Poszwa J(1), Słowikowski B(2), Owecki W(1)(3), Szymanowicz O(1), Jagodziński 
PP(2), Kozubski W(4), Dorszewska J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Department of Neurology, Poznan University of 
Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Poznan University of 
Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(3)Student Scientific Society of Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(4)Chair and Department of Neurology, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 
Poznan, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia is a set of acquired and progressive neuropsychiatric 
disorders. The most common types of dementia include Alzheimer's Disease (AD) 
and Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD). Early intravital diagnosis of both types of 
dementia is difficult. Both molecular and neuroimaging markers are important for 
the diagnosis of different types of dementia.
METHODS: This review employed freely accessible databases, including PubMed, 
Google Scholar, and ScienceDirect, using keywords such as molecular parameters, 
neuroimaging factors, dementia, FTD, Alzheimer's disease, and fMRI.
RESULTS: Among the molecular markers of dementia, there are parameters common to 
its various types and enabling their differentiation. These parameters include 
both genetic and biochemical factors. Markers include genetic factors that help 
differentiate AD (APP, PSEN1, PSEN2) from FTD (e.g., TARDBP, FUS, MAPT). 
Simultaneously, there are important biochemical parameters differentiating AD 
(amyloid-beta (Aβ), neurofibrillary tangles) from FTD (TDP-43, FUS, and 
different forms of tau protein aggregates). Currently, there is growing interest 
in neuroimaging studies in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Positron 
Emission Tomography (PET) imaging enables the quantification and localization of 
Aβ deposits in the brain through the selective binding of the Pittsburgh 
Compound-B (PiB) ligand. This method has become the standard in AD diagnostics. 
In the context of magnetic resonance imaging studies, it is worth noting the 
search for structural differences between AD (mainly affecting the temporal 
lobe, including the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, and the parietal lobe) 
and FTD (primarily involving the prefrontal cortex, anterior temporal lobes, and 
subcortical structures, as well as exhibiting an anteroposterior gradient of 
atrophy). However, the method of the future appears to be functional Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (fMRI), especially since functional changes precede structural 
changes in the development of dementia.
DISCUSSION: The review encompasses the basic diagnostic criteria for AD and FTD 
dementia, as well as molecular and neuroimaging parameters important for the 
intravital diagnosis of these dementias. It seems that the use of fMRI can 
contribute to both early diagnosis and early introduction of targeted treatment 
in developing dementia. Although it is not yet widely used clinically, its 
diagnostic value is increasingly recognized.
CONCLUSION: The benefits of fMRI studies complementing molecular markers in the 
diagnosis of dementia were highlighted.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050390340250716061313
PMID: 40755109


39. Curr Aging Sci. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.2174/0118746098376646250715094707.
Online  ahead of print.

Revolutionizing Therapeutic Approaches Against Pathophysiology of Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Therapeutic Review.

Saini M(1), Rohilla S(1), Kumar R(2).

Author information:
(1)Geeta Institute of Pharmacy, Geeta University, Naultha-132145, Panipat, 
Haryana, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jagannath University, Bahadurgarh, 
Haryana, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neuron-degenerative old age 
illness, which deteriorates the neuronal cells of the brain ultimately leading 
to dementia, decreased thinking ability and intricacy in performing daily 
routine activities. In most of the cases, AD is suspected to be caused by a 
combination of numerous factors, like environmental, genetic and lifestyle 
affecting the brain functioning. The present permitted treatments include 
N-methyl-Daspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, cholinesterase inhibitors, and 
their combinations, which provide only momentary and symptomatic relief. 
Nowadays, clinical research is interested, in the pathology of Alzheimer's 
disease to target the metabolism of abnormal tau protein, removal of 
beta-amyloid inflammatory response, the cholinergic neuron, and free radical 
damage, and treatments that can either stop or modify the course, of AD. 
Globally, efforts are continued to search new targets to invent new options for 
the treatment of AD. The present review critically discusses about various 
treatment strategies for the patients presented with AD. Moreover, herbal drug 
and new drug candidates, along with nanoformulations for the treatments of AD 
and the role of AI-based technology in searching therapy for AD have been 
delineated in the present article. We concluded that preventing amyloid-β (Aβ) 
synthesis, enhancing the removal of Aβ deposition, or preventing Aβ aggregation 
can suppress AD. Moreover, herbal medicines have become an attractive 
alternative to cure this disease with numerous beneficial effects with little 
side effects. Novel approaches using AI are therefore required to create 
treatments with novel targets that may not only cure symptoms but also prevent 
disease development at an early stage to improve the quality of patients' lives.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118746098376646250715094707
PMID: 40755106


40. Curr Pharm Des. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.2174/0113816128386836250723134001.
Online  ahead of print.

Ginkgolide as a Promising Multi-Target Therapeutic for Alzheimer's Disease: 
Targeting ApoE4 and Beyond.

Beigh S(1), Alsahag M(2), Alisaac A(2), Dar SA(3), Alyami MH(4), Ajlan SE(5), 
Malak HA(6), Alshehri AA(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Al-Baha 
University, Al-Baha, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Al-Baha University, Al-Baha, Saudi 
Arabia.
(3)Research and Scientific Studies Unit, College of Nursing, Jazan University, 
Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Najran University, Najran, 
66462, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Medical Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine , 
Menoufia University.
(6)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, 
Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Najran University, P.O. Box 1988, Najran, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: The progressive neurodegenerative disease known as Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) is typified by neuroinflammation, amyloid-beta buildup, and 
cognitive impairment. Current pharmacological treatments merely alleviate 
symptoms, despite extensive research, which underscores the need for innovative, 
multi-target medicines. Since apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) is a significant genetic 
risk factor linked to the development of AD, it is a potentially effective 
treatment target. With their neuroprotective qualities, natural substances like 
ginkgolide may help treat some diseases. This study investigates ginkgolide's 
potential as a multi-target treatment for AD, with a particular emphasis on how 
it interacts with the ApoE4 N-terminal domain.
METHODS: The interaction between Ginkgolide and ApoE4 (PDB ID: 8AX8) was 
assessed using pharmacokinetic profiling, molecular docking, and molecular 
dynamics (MD) simulations. MD simulations were used to determine stability, and 
AutoDock Vina was used to obtain the binding affinity. To predict 
pharmacokinetics and toxicity, SwissADME and PkCSM were employed. The 
effectiveness of ginkgolide was contextualized using comparative docking with 
curcumin and resveratrol.
RESULTS: Ginkgolide formed sustained hydrophobic contacts with important sites 
and demonstrated a substantial binding affinity (-7.1 kcal/mol) to ApoE4. MD 
simulations verified negligible fluctuations and complex stability over 100 ns. 
Pharmacokinetics showed no significant toxicity risks, good gastrointestinal 
absorption, and favorable blood-brain barrier permeability. In terms of binding 
affinity and stability, ginkgolide fared better than curcumin and resveratrol, 
indicating its greater therapeutic potential.
DISCUSSION: The results indicate that ginkgolide effectively binds and 
stabilizes the ApoE4 N-terminal domain, supporting its potential role in 
modulating a key pathological factor in Alzheimer's disease. Its superior 
pharmacokinetic profile and interaction dynamics compared to curcumin and 
resveratrol suggest a broader therapeutic relevance. These in silico insights 
provide a mechanistic basis for further investigation into ginkgolide's 
neuroprotective effects.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrated ginkgolide as a potentially effective 
multi-target treatment for AD through ApoE4 regulation. It is a better option 
than other natural chemicals because of its potent binding affinity, stability, 
and pharmacokinetics. These findings highlight the value of in silico methods in 
the early stages of drug discovery and the need for additional experimental 
support before they can be used in clinical settings.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128386836250723134001
PMID: 40755103


41. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2025 Aug 3. doi: 10.1002/acn3.70149. Online ahead of 
print.

Serum Neurofilament Light Chain in Multiple Sclerosis: Superiority of Age- and 
BMI-Corrected Z Scores/Percentiles Over Absolute Cutoff Values for Prediction of 
Treatment Response.

Einsiedler M(1), Maceski AM(1), Sandgren S(2)(3), Oechtering J(1), Schaedelin 
S(1), Hofer L(1), Zadic A(1), Gomez JFV(1), Melie-Garcia L(1)(4), Cagol A(1)(4), 
Galbusera R(1)(4), Finkener S(5), Lalive P(6)(7)(8), Uginet M(6), Müller S(9), 
Pot C(10), Mathias A(10), Du Pasquier R(10), Hoepner R(11), Chan A(11), Disanto 
G(12), Zecca C(12)(13), D'Souza M(1), Hemkens LG(1), Derfuss T(1), Yaldizli 
Ö(1)(4), Roth P(14), Gobbi C(12)(13), Brassat D(15)(16), Tackenberg B(17)(18), 
Zetterberg H(19)(20)(21)(22)(23)(24), Ziemssen T(25), Wiendl H(26), Berger 
K(27), Hermesdorf M(27), Piehl F(28)(29), Kappos L(1)(4), Granziera C(1)(4), 
Abdelhak A(30), Leppert D(1), Willemse EAJ(1), Benkert P(1), Kuhle J(1); Swiss 
Multiple Sclerosis Cohort Study (SMSC).

Author information:
(1)Multiple Sclerosis Centre and Research Center for Clinical Neuroimmunology 
and Neuroscience (RC2NB), Neurology, Departments of Biomedicine and Clinical 
Research, University Hospital and University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology 
at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Department of Neurology, Region Västra 
Götaland, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Translational Imaging in Neurology (ThINK) Basel, Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Basel and University of 
Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Neurology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Division of Neurology, and Department 
of Medicine, Translational Biomarker Group, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Diagnostic Department, Division of Laboratory Medicine, Geneva University 
Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland.
(8)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(9)Department of Neurology, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, St. Gallen, 
Switzerland.
(10)Service of Neurology and Laboratories of Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV) and University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(11)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(12)Multiple Sclerosis Center, Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland, EOC, Lugano, 
Switzerland.
(13)Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Università della Svizzera Italiana (USI), 
Lugano, Switzerland.
(14)Department of Neurology and Clinical Neuroscience Center, University 
Hospital Zurich and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(15)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(16)Department of Neurology, Hôpital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, Paris, 
France.
(17)Department of Neurology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany.
(18)F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland.
(19)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(20)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(21)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(22)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(23)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China.
(24)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(25)Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Department of Neurology, University 
Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden, Technical University of Dresden, Dresden, 
Germany.
(26)Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology, University Hospital Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(27)Institute of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, University of Münster, 
Münster, Germany.
(28)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(29)Center for Neurology, Academic Specialist Center, Stockholm Health Services, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(30)Department of Neurology and Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Prognostication of disease course and prediction of treatment 
response in multiple sclerosis is an unmet need. We compared the performance of 
serum neurofilament light chain Z scores (age- and BMI-adjusted) with absolute 
concentrations for the prediction of response to disease-modifying therapy.
METHODS: Observational cohort study including the first serum sample of 
participants after the start of fingolimod therapy. We estimated hazard ratios 
for future relapses comparing participants with high (upper quartile) versus 
lower neurofilament light chain levels, based on either absolute concentration 
or Z score cutoffs. We compared the prognostic/predictive performance of these 
two measures for the occurrence of new/enlarging T2w lesions in longitudinal 
MRI.
RESULTS: We included 447 participants (median [IQR] age, 41.3 [32.1-49.2] years; 
65.1% female); median follow-up 8.3 years [6.0-10.3]. Participants with a high 
neurofilament light chain Z score (Z ≥ 1.2/88.5 percentile) were more likely to 
experience future relapses (HR: 1.80, 95% CI 1.27-2.54, p < 0.001) compared to 
those below this threshold while this dichotomy could not be demonstrated with 
absolute concentration cutoffs (≥ vs. < 10.8 pg/mL; HR: 0.94, 95% CI 0.64-1.38, 
p = 0.75). Furthermore, patients with upper quartile Z scores were associated 
with a higher incidence of new/enlarging T2w lesions compared with those below 
this threshold (OR: 1.88, 95% CI 1.31-2.70, p < 0.001); again, absolute 
concentration cutoffs failed to identify this risk (OR: 1.20, 95% CI 0.82-1.77, 
p = 0.34). These findings were confirmed when patients having started 
alternative oral treatments were also included (n = 713).
INTERPRETATION: Serum neurofilament light chain Z scores consistently 
outperformed absolute concentration cutoffs for prognostication of 
clinical/radiological disease activity and may facilitate individual prediction 
of treatment response.

© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.70149
PMID: 40755082


42. Electromagn Biol Med. 2025 Aug 3:1-15. doi: 10.1080/15368378.2025.2540435. 
Online ahead of print.

Low frequency magnetic field exposure and neurodegenerative disease: systematic 
review of animal studies.

Stam R(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Sustainability, Environment and Health, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

Epidemiological studies have found an association between occupational exposure 
to low frequency magnetic fields and the occurrence of motor neuron disease and 
Alzheimer's disease. No association has been found for Parkinson's disease and 
the evidence for multiple sclerosis is insufficient. Animal models studying the 
effects of low frequency magnetic fields on neurodegenerative disease induction 
or progression could provide more evidence on causation and the underlying 
mechanisms. A systematic search and review was conducted of peer-reviewed 
research articles involving animal experiments on the effects of low frequency 
magnetic field exposure on behavioural and neuroanatomical outcomes relevant for 
neurodegenerative diseases in humans. Firstly, experimental studies in naive 
animals do not support a causal relationship between exposure to low frequency 
magnetic fields and the induction of neuropathology relevant for Alzheimer's 
disease, but the number of studies relevant for motor neuron disease, multiple 
sclerosis and Parkinson's disease is too limited to draw conclusions. Secondly, 
experimental studies in existing animal models for neurodegenerative disease 
support a therapeutic (beneficial) effect of low frequency magnetic field 
treatment on behavioural and neuroanatomical abnormalities relevant for dementia 
(including Alzheimer's disease), multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease and 
no effect on disease progression in models relevant for motor neuron disease.

Plain Language Summary: Magnetic fields with low frequencies (between 1 Hz and 
100,000 Hz) are produced by electricity lines and electric devices that use 
alternating current. Exposure to low frequency magnetic fields in certain 
workplaces, such as power plants or welding, can be higher than in the home. 
Workers are protected against known, immediate health effects of magnetic fields 
by legal limits. Scientists have also investigated if longer exposure to weaker 
magnetic fields is linked to diseases in workers. Their research has found some 
evidence for an increase in certain neurological diseases, in particular 
Alzheimer’s and motor neuron disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. To find 
out if the magnetic fields are the real cause for these diseases, experiments 
have also been done in laboratory animals. This paper summarises the findings in 
scientific papers published about these experiments. Exposure of healthy rats or 
mice to low frequency magnetic fields does not cause signs of disease similar to 
those in Alzheimer’s. Too few animal studies have been done about signs of motor 
neuron disease, Parkinson’s disease or multiple sclerosis to draw conclusions. 
Rats or mice with an existing neurological disease, for example because of a 
genetic defect, have also been treated with low frequency magnetic fields. In 
these experiments, the magnetic field generally had a beneficial effect. It 
lessened the disease symptoms in animals with a condition similar to 
Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s disease or multiple sclerosis. It did not have a clear 
effect in animals with a condition similar to motor neuron disease.

DOI: 10.1080/15368378.2025.2540435
PMID: 40754996


43. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2025 Aug 18;57(4):764-771. doi: 
10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2025.04.022.

[Protective effects of escin and dextromethorphan on Alzheimer disease in 
Caenorhabditis elegans models].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y(1), Li L(1), Zhu A(2), Xiao W(1), Wang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Peking University School of Public Health, Key 
Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Compatibility Toxicology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Toxicological Research and 
Risk Assessment for Food Safety, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Malignant Tumors, Basic Medical College, 
Fujian Medical University, Ministry of Education, Fuzhou 350108, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether escin (ESC) and dextromethorphan (DEX) have 
the protective effects on the progression and symptoms of Alzheimer disease 
(AD).
METHODS: The AD model of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) was established by 
transgenic amyloid β-protein (Aβ protein). Different concentrations of ESC or 
DEX or 50 μmol/L memantine (MEM) were used to treat the AD model worms, and 
their lifespan was detected. The movement ability of AD model C. elegans was 
evaluated by body bending frequency and head swinging frequency. The changes in 
cognitive functions of AD model C. elegans before and after treatment were 
detected by chemotaxis experiments. The changes in Aβ protein and reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) content in C. elegans were detected. The changes in gene 
pathways related to oxidative stress were detected by Real-time quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).
RESULTS: At high dose 1 000 μmol/L, ESC or DEX treatment showed no significant 
effects on the activity of C. elegans. Compared with untreated worms, the 
survival time of AD model C. elegans in the 20 μmol/L ESC and 60 μmol/L DEX 
intervention groups was significantly extended. In the middle stage of AD 
progression, the body bending frequency and head swinging frequency of AD model 
worms after ESC or DEX treatment was significantly increased compared with the 
untreated control group with DEX being more effective in the recovery of head 
swinging frequency. For the early cognitive function tests, the chemotaxis index 
of ESC or DEX treated worms was significantly higher than that of the untreated 
worms, which correlated with marked reductions in the Aβ protein levels. The 
reactive oxygen species content in the drug intervention group was also lower 
than that in the control group. RT-qPCR results showed that ESC could inhibit 
oxidative stress in the AD model C. elegans by a 2-fold upregulation of skn1 
expression.
CONCLUSION: ESC and DEX could improve the reductions of movement ability and 
cognitive function in the AD model worms and delay the aggravation of AD-related 
symptoms. ESC delays the progression of AD possibly by activating the SKN-1/Nrf2 
pathway to protect against oxidative injury in the AD model.

目的: 探究七叶皂苷(escin，ESC)和右美沙芬(dextromethorphan，DEX)是否具有延缓阿尔茨海默病(Alzheimer 
disease，AD)的作用。
方法: 使用秀丽隐杆线虫β-淀粉样蛋白(amyloid 
β-protein，Aβ)转基因构建的AD模型，采用固体暴露方式，给予不同浓度的ESC和DEX处理，以美金刚(memantine，MEM)50 
μmol/L作为阳性对照组，检测线虫的寿命变化、运动能力和认知功能变化、Aβ蛋白表达量，以及活性氧含量。通过实时荧光定量PCR检测氧化应激通路相关基因的表达。
结果: 高剂量处理(1 000 μmol/L ESC或DEX)对野生型N2线虫活动无明显影响。与空白对照组相比，20 μmol/L ESC组和60 μmo/L 
DEX组显著延长AD模型线虫的生存时间。在AD发病中期，ESC和DEX可减少AD模型线虫的身体弯曲频率的降低，且DEX能明显改善AD模型线虫的头部摆动频率降低。早期的认知功能测试的趋化指数ESC组和DEX组及阳性对照组显著高于空白对照组，这与其体内Aβ蛋白的含量降低相关。ESC组和DEX组的活性氧含量相较于空白对照组有所减少；且基因表达结果显示，ESC可通过上调抗氧化应激基因skn1的表达来减轻AD模型线虫体内的氧化损伤。
结论: 
ESC和DEX能改善AD模型线虫运动能力和认知功能的降低，延缓AD相关症状的加重。ESC可能通过激活SKN-1/Nrf2通路，降低AD模型线虫的氧化应激进而延缓AD进展。

DOI: 10.19723/j.issn.1671-167X.2025.04.022
PMCID: PMC12330949
PMID: 40754917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 利益冲突  所有作者均声明不存在利益冲突。


44. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Oct;107(3):994-996. doi: 10.1177/13872877251364556.
Epub  2025 Aug 3.

Screening antiseizure medications to break the cycle between neuronal 
hyperexcitability and Alzheimer's disease.

Barbour AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Epilepsy is commonly comorbid with Alzheimer's disease and is now well 
established to accelerate disease course. In the present study, Knox and 
colleagues evaluated the efficacy of several antiseizure medications (ASMs) in 
mitigating seizure induction in two aged Alzheimer's disease mouse models with 
distinct etiologies. They found differential responses to seizure induction and 
ASM treatment across sexes and models. These results reveal a complex interplay 
between sex, Alzheimer's disease risk genes, and neuronal hyperexcitability that 
suggest a tailored approach to seizure control may maximize therapeutic benefit 
in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251364556
PMCID: PMC12449591
PMID: 40754800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


45. Am J Alzheimers Dis Other Demen. 2025 Jan-Dec;40:15333175251363706. doi: 
10.1177/15333175251363706. Epub 2025 Aug 3.

The Faith Care Family Project: A Pilot Intervention for African American 
Dementia Family Caregivers.

Fields NL(1), Xu L(1), Williams IC(2), Epps F(3), Tinker S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, The University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX, 
USA.
(2)School of Nursing, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(3)UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.

The Faith Care Family (FCF) Project was a telephone based, volunteer-led 
intervention for African American Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(AD/ADRD) family caregivers that was piloted in one predominantly African 
American church. Focus groups with faith leaders and parishioners informed the 
training and intervention. Eighteen church volunteers participated in the FCF 
Project training, but 9 of them were paired with family caregivers and completed 
the FCF Project intervention. Church volunteers indicated overall significant 
improvements knowledge of AD/ADRD after the training as well as after the 
intervention. Quantitative results indicated that caregivers increased their 
knowledge of dementia, reported improved coping skills, and reported increased 
positive aspects of caregiving. Feeling a connection, normalizing the challenges 
of caregiving, gaining or reinforcing knowledge, and sharing community resources 
were themes from qualitative interviews with the family caregivers. Overall, 
findings indicate that the FCF Project shows promise as an intervention for 
African American AD/ADRD family caregivers.

DOI: 10.1177/15333175251363706
PMCID: PMC12319281
PMID: 40754686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


46. J Oleo Sci. 2025;74(8):721-728. doi: 10.5650/jos.ess25104.

Phytochemical Compositions and Bioactive Properties of Plantago lanceolata L.: 
Anti-oxidant, Anti-diabetic, and Anti-cholinergic Potentials.

Işık M(1), Sümer E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Engineering, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali 
University.

In this study, the phenolic compound profile, antioxidant capacity, and 
inhibition potential on enzymes associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and diabetes of Plantago lanceolata L. (PL) extract were 
investigated in detail. Quantitative analysis of phenolic compounds was 
performed by advanced liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), 
and the highest concentration of the phenolic was observed in fumaric acid 
(4486.80 µg/L). Vanillic acid, kaempferol, resveratrol and caffeic acid were 
also detected in significant amounts. The antioxidant activities of PL ethanol 
extract were determined by DPPH, ABTS, FRAP, and CUPRAC methods and revealed 
moderate radical scavenging and metal-reducing capacities. The PL extract 
exhibited notable free radical scavenging activity, with inhibition rates of 
37.86 ± 2.42% in the DPPH assay and 34.72 ± 2.86% in the ABTS assay. These 
results revealed that the extract showed an activity close to standard 
antioxidants such as α-tocopherol. The extract exhibited inhibitory activity 
against acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and 
α-glucosidase enzymes, with IC50 values of 8.77 ± 0.52, 7.37 ± 0.53, and 3.63 ± 
0.27 µg mL-1, respectively. These findings may indicate that PL extract may have 
therapeutic potential for disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and diabetes.

DOI: 10.5650/jos.ess25104
PMID: 40754427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Chin J Nat Med. 2025 Aug;23(8):909-919. doi: 10.1016/S1875-5364(25)60927-7.

Facilitating microglial phagocytosis by which Jiawei Xionggui Decoction 
alleviates cognitive impairment via TREM2-mediated energy metabolic 
reprogramming.

Wen W(1), Chen J(1), Xiang J(1), Zhang S(1), Liu J(2), Wang J(1), Wang P(3), Xu 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China; School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China; Institute of Material Medica Integration and Transformation for Brain 
Disorders, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China.
(2)Division of Biosciences, University College London, London WC1E6BT, UK.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China; School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China; Institute of Material Medica Integration and Transformation for Brain 
Disorders, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China. Electronic address: viviansector@aliyun.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China; School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China; Institute of Material Medica Integration and Transformation for Brain 
Disorders, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China. Electronic address: xushijun@cdutcm.edu.cn.

Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2)-mediated microglial 
phagocytosis is an energy-intensive process that plays a crucial role in amyloid 
beta (Aβ) clearance in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Energy metabolic reprogramming 
(EMR) in microglia induced by TREM2 presents therapeutic targets for cognitive 
impairment in AD. Jiawei Xionggui Decoction (JWXG) has demonstrated 
effectiveness in enhancing energy supply, protecting microglia, and mitigating 
cognitive impairment in APP/PS1 mice. However, the mechanism by which JWXG 
enhances Aβ phagocytosis through TREM2-mediated EMR in microglia remains 
unclear. This study investigates how JWXG facilitates microglial phagocytosis 
and alleviates cognitive deficits in AD through TREM2-mediated EMR. Microglial 
phagocytosis was evaluated through immunofluorescence staining in vitro and in 
vivo. The EMR level of microglia was assessed using high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits. The 
TREM2/protein kinase B (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin 
(mTOR)/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) signaling pathway was analyzed using 
Western blotting in BV2 cells. TREM2-/- BV2 cells were utilized for reverse 
validation experiments. The Aβ burden, neuropathological features, and cognitive 
ability in APP/PS1 mice were evaluated using ELISA kits, immunohistochemistry 
(IHC), and the Morris water maze (MWM) test. JWXG enhanced both the phagocytosis 
of EMR disorder-BV2 cells (EMRD-BV2) and increased EMR levels. Notably, these 
effects were significantly reversed in TREM2-/- BV2 cells. JWXG elevated TREM2 
expression, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels, and microglial phagocytosis in 
APP/PS1 mice. Additionally, JWXG reduced Aβ-burden, neuropathological lesions, 
and cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice. In conclusion, JWXG promoted 
TREM2-induced EMR and enhanced microglial phagocytosis, thereby reducing Aβ 
deposition, improving neuropathological lesions, and alleviating cognitive 
deficits.

Copyright © 2025 China Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1875-5364(25)60927-7
PMID: 40754372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Neurosci Lett. 2025 Oct 14;865:138336. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2025.138336.
Epub  2025 Aug 3.

Intracerebral administration of Wnt7a improves memory performance and increases 
synaptophysin expression in the 3xTg-AD mouse model.

Colín-Martínez E(1), Arias C(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Genómica y Toxicología Ambiental, Instituto de 
Investigaciones Biomédicas. Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Ciudad de 
México, México.
(2)Departamento de Medicina Genómica y Toxicología Ambiental, Instituto de 
Investigaciones Biomédicas. Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Ciudad de 
México, México. Electronic address: carias@unam.mx.

Wnt signaling has emerged as an important pathway involved in the expression of 
some Alzheimeŕs disease hallmarks. In the adult brain, Wnt signaling regulates 
synaptic structure and function and has a role in synaptogenesis, synaptic 
transmission and memory formation; therefore, its activation could have 
therapeutic implications in this neurodegenerative disease. In this study we 
aimed to investigate the effects of chronic infusion of recombinant Wnt7a 
protein on improving memory performance and the expression of plasticity markers 
in a female 3xTg-AD mouse model. To this end, we analyzed behavioral outcomes 
through the open field and object place recognition tasks and changes in pre- 
and postsynaptic proteins and the neurotrophin VGF. We found a positive effect 
of Wnt7a on the recovery of spatial memory and the upregulation of the 
presynaptic marker synaptophysin, demonstrating its potential beneficial use in 
alleviating cognitive deficits in patients with Alzheimeŕs disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2025.138336
PMID: 40754181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Sep;322(Pt 1):146516. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.146516. Epub 2025 Aug 5.

Tannic acid-derived carbon dots: Dual-function inhibitors against β-amyloid 
fibrosis and bacterial infections.

Shao X(1), Cao X(1), Fan T(1), Yan C(2), Wang C(1), Wang J(1), Bai M(1), Cui 
C(1), Wang X(1), Guan P(3), Fan L(4), Hu X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an 710072, China.
(2)School of Medicine, Xizang Minzu University, Key Laboratory for Molecular 
Genetic Mechanisms and Intervention Research on High Altitude Disease of Tibet 
Autonomous Region, Xianyang, Shaanxi 712082, China. Electronic address: 
yanchaoren1994@163.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an 710072, China. 
Electronic address: guanping1113@nwpu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Air 
Force Medical University, Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Chiral Drug and Vaccine 
Adjuvants, 169 Changle West Road, Xi'an 710032, China. Electronic address: 
xxfanny@fmmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an 710072, China. 
Electronic address: huxl@nwpu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease is a puzzle that has been plaguing mankind for a long time, 
and amyloid plaque cascade and microbial infection are now widely accepted 
hypotheses of pathogenicity. In this work, we prepared carbon dots TACDs by 
solvothermal carbonization using tannic acid and o-Phenylenediamine as 
precursors. TACDs have abundant functional groups and large conjugated 
structures, and binds to Aβ42 through hydrophobic interactions, hydrogen 
bonding, electrostatic interaction and π-π stacking to efficiently inhibit the 
self-assembly and mis-folding of Aβ42. The existence of a good binding and 
co-localization capacity between TACDs and the Aβ42 species. TACDs have good 
biocompatibility and TACDs can rapidly enter the cells within 0.5 h. In an in 
vitro blood-brain barrier model, TACDs show good BBB penetration ability. 
Moreover, TACDs have good antibacterial ability and can achieve a dual function. 
The above results will provide the foundation for the application of 
polyphenol-derived carbon dots in AD diagnosis and treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.146516
PMID: 40754079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2025 Oct;177:106314. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106314. Epub 2025 Aug 5.

Promoting spike-timing-dependent plasticity via paired associative stimulation: 
From healthy subjects to clinical applications.

Martino Cinnera A(1), Spampinato DA(2), Pezzopane V(3), Antonioni A(4), Fregna 
G(4), Baroni A(5), Casarotto A(6), Di Lorenzo F(1), Bonnì S(7), Straudi S(5), 
Koch G(8).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Institute for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care IRCCS 
Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(2)Scientific Institute for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care IRCCS 
Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy; Departement of Human Neuroscience, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Scientific Institute for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care IRCCS 
Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy; IIT@UniFe Center for Translational 
Neurophysiology, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy.
(4)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy; Doctoral Program in Translational Neurosciences and 
Neurotechnologies, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy; Department of 
Neuroscience, Ferrara University Hospital, Ferrara, Italy.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy; Department of Neuroscience, Ferrara University Hospital, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(6)IIT@UniFe Center for Translational Neurophysiology, Istituto Italiano di 
Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy.
(7)Scientific Institute for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care IRCCS 
Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy; Department of Theoretical and Applied 
Sciences, eCampus University, Novedrate, Italy.
(8)Scientific Institute for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care IRCCS 
Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy; Department of Neuroscience and 
Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. Electronic address: 
g.koch@hsantalucia.it.

Paired Associative Stimulation (PAS) protocols have been widely employed to 
study functional neural connections along the cortico-spinal pathways and 
between interconnected brain regions. PAS protocols induce 
spike-timing-dependent plasticity, underscoring their potential as therapeutic 
neurostimulation tools. Cortico-peripheral PAS is based on the temporal pairing 
of peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS) and cortical transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) pulses, applied repeatedly at specific inter-stimulus 
intervals, to modulate the activity of the corticospinal tract. In contrast, 
cortico-cortical PAS involves the application of TMS pulses at two different 
brain areas to induce long-term changes in functional connectivity. In this 
review, we provide a comprehensive overview of existing PAS protocols and the 
factors influencing their effects, with particular emphasis on the critical role 
of the inter-stimulus interval. We trace the development of PAS from initial 
experiments in healthy subjects to its emerging therapeutic applications in 
various pathological conditions. We summarize current preliminary findings, 
discuss limitations, outline future directions, and review ongoing clinical 
trials. Although still in its early stages, PAS, particularly cortico-peripheral 
PAS, shows promising efficacy in motor recovery for stroke and spinal cord 
injury patients. Furthermore, initial evidence points to potential benefits in 
Alzheimer's disease and generalized anxiety disorders, supporting the expanding 
therapeutic scope of PAS protocols.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106314
PMID: 40754037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare. Figures were generated using BioRender 
software (https://www.biorender.com) with the licence from A.M.C. and G.K.


51. Kidney Blood Press Res. 2025 Aug 1;50(1):1-26. doi: 10.1159/000547517. Online
 ahead of print.

Cognitive performance correlated with hemoglobin level in patients with chronic 
kidney disease: a data analysis from the National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey (NHANES) 2011- 2014.

Jia L, Hao L, Zhang HL.

INTRODUCTION: Given the increased incidence of renal anemia and cognitive 
dysfunction in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), the association 
between hemoglobin levels and cognitive function in these patients remains 
elucidated. An optimal level of hemoglobin for the best cognitive performance in 
CKD has yet to be determined.
METHODS: A retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted using data from 
2011-2014 of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). 
Enrolled subjects for analysis were divided into the CKD and the non-CKD groups. 
The Animal Fluency Test (AF), Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST), Consortium 
to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease Word Learning Test (CERAD-WL) 
and Word List Recall Test (CERAD-DR) were used to evaluate cognitive 
performances. We quantified the association between hemoglobin levels and 
cognitive function in patients with CKD and non-CKD subjects by using the 
logistic regression analysis. Plotted curves and inflection points were 
calculated by a recursive algorithm.
RESULTS: The ratio of cognitive impairment was higher in the CKD group than in 
the non-CKD group. Hemoglobin levels were correlated with CERAD-DR and DSST in 
patients with CKD. For non-CKD subjects, the hemoglobin level was not correlated 
with any test results. The potential range of the hemoglobin level was 11.0 - 
12.7 mg/dL for keeping better cognitive performance of patients with CKD.
CONCLUSION: Hemoglobin levels are associated with cognitive performance in 
patients with CKD. The treatment of renal anemia would be meaningful to reduce 
cognitive impairment in CKD.

The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000547517
PMCID: PMC12503696
PMID: 40753965

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


52. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Sep;164:108812. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108812. Epub
2025  Jul 29.

Synthesis, biological screening and computational analysis of Thiazole linked 
Thiazolidinone Schiff bases as anti-Alzheimer's drug candidates.

Farghaly TA(1), Rehman W(2), Khan Y(3), Sarfraz H(4).

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, 
Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Hazara University Mansehra, Pakistan. Electronic 
address: sono_waj@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry, COMSATS University Islamabad campus, 45550 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, 45320 Islamabad, 
Pakistan.

This study unveils the rational design and stepwise synthesis of new 
thiazole-based thiazolidinone Schiff base derivatives (1-15), harnessing 
2-amino-5-nitrothiazole as a crucial precursor. These newly synthesized 
derivatives were structurally characterized through spectroscopic techniques 
1HNMR, 13CNMR and HREI-MS. Moreover, consider the crucial role of 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibition in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapy, the synthesized compounds were evaluated for 
their cholinergic enzyme inhibitory potential against AChE and BuChE, with 
Donepezil (IC50 = 5.10 ± 0.10 μM) as the reference drug. Among all the 
derivatives, the compounds 2, 3, 5, and 7 has shown the best biological 
inhibition potency with the values of (IC50 = 2.98 ± 0.19 and 3.22 ± 0.51 μM), 
(IC50 = 2.80 ± 1.23 and 3.11 ± 0.78 μM), (IC50 = 4.34 ± 0.86 and 5.55 ± 0.91 μM) 
and (IC50 = 3.90 ± 1.42 and 3.75 ± 0.98 μM) respectively as compared to the 
standard drug. Additionally, molecular docking studies were conducted against 
AChE and BuChE enzymes, with docking validation confirming accuracy via RMSD 
values of 1.15 Å and 0.19 Å, respectively, indicating reliable binding 
predictions. Among the screened compounds, compound-5 showed the strongest 
binding affinity and was further investigated through in-silico techniques. 
Similarly, density Functional Theory (DFT) analysis revealed that compound-5 had 
the lowest HOMO-LUMO gap (2.36 eV), indicating high reactivity, while compound-2 
exhibited the highest energy gap (3.39 eV), suggesting greater stability. 
Furthermore, molecular electrostatic potential (MESP) maps supported these 
findings by highlighting distinct charge distribution patterns. Similarly, ADMET 
predictions showed that compound-5 possessed favorable drug-like properties, 
including membrane permeability and optimal lipophilicity. Moreover, toxicity 
analysis confirmed that all selected compounds were non-carcinogenic, moderately 
toxic (LD50 ≥ 1000 mg/kg) and non-cytotoxic, with compound-3 having the highest 
LD50 (2604 mg/kg) and lowest toxicity class. None of the compounds were 
predicted to cross the blood-brain barrier or inhibit major cytochrome P450 
enzymes. Hence, these findings highlight the potential of these newly 
synthesized thiazole-thiazolidinone Schiff base derivatives as promising 
therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease that were contributing to the 
development of next-generation cholinesterase inhibitors with promising efficacy 
and selectivity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108812
PMID: 40753879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All the 
authors have no conflicts of interest.


53. J Frailty Aging. 2025 Aug;14(4):100076. doi: 10.1016/j.tjfa.2025.100076. Epub
 2025 Aug 5.

Intrinsic capacity in Lewy body dementia: a review.

Sanapo F(1), Signoret M(2), Nodit M(3), Garnier-Crussard A(4).

Author information:
(1)Paris-Saclay University, Versailles Saint Quentin-en-les-Yvelines University, 
Faculty of Medicine Simone Veil, Versailles, France; Department of medicine of 
older adults, Sainte-Perine Hospital, Assistance Publique - Hopitaux de Paris, 
Paris, France.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Salon-de-Provence Hospital, 
Salon-de-Provence, France.
(3)Princess Paola Hospital, Vivalia Group, Departement of Geriatric Medecine, 
Marche-en-Famenne 6900, Belgium.
(4)Clinical and Research Memory Center of Lyon, Charpennes Hospital, Department 
of Geriatric Medicine, Lyon Institute For Aging, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon 1 
University, Villeurbanne, France; Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND 
"Physiopathology and Imaging of Neurological Disorders", Neuropresage Team, 
Cyceron, 14000 Caen, France. Electronic address: 
antoine.garnier-crussard@chu-lyon.fr.

Frailty is a clinical syndrome characterized by diminished physiological 
reserves and increased vulnerability to stressors. While frailty has been 
largely studied in Alzheimer's disease, few study focused on Lewy body dementia 
(LBD). Beyond frailty, the World Health Organization recently highlights the 
concept of intrinsic capacity (IC), offering a promising framework for the early 
identification and intervention to mitigate the risk of frailty and disability 
in older adults. IC refers to an individual's physical and mental abilities 
(including five dimensions: sensory, psychology, locomotion, vitality and 
cognition), which support the maintenance of functional capacity and promote 
healthy aging. In this review, we aimed to describe the prevalence of IC decline 
in LBD and its potential consequences. While few studies focused specifically on 
this question, we found evidence in the literature of a higher prevalence of IC 
decline in LBD, compared to cognitively unimpaired older adults and to 
Alzheimer's disease patients. If future studies are needed to confirm these 
results, we assume that IC assessment and monitoring in LBD may be a further 
step towards a better integrated and personalized care for patients. This may 
open the avenue to develop specific tailored interventions, to decrease 
disability and increase quality of life and "healthy ageing" of patients despite 
the presence of LBD.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjfa.2025.100076
PMCID: PMC12399262
PMID: 40753578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Independent of this work, 
Independent of this work, A.G.-C.is an unpaid sub-investigator or local 
principal investigator in NCT04867616 (UCB Pharma), NCT04241068 (Biogen), 
NCT05310071 (Biogen), NCT03446001 (TauRx Therapeutics), NCT03444870 (Roche), 
NCT04374253 (Roche), NCT04777396 (Novo Nordisk), NCT04777409 (Novo Nordisk), 
NCT04770220 (Alzheon), NCT05423522 (Medesis Pharma), NCT06079190 
(GlaxoSmithKline). Other authors declare any conflict of interest. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


54. Interdiscip Sci. 2025 Aug 2. doi: 10.1007/s12539-025-00759-7. Online ahead of
 print.

Integrating Time and Frequency Domain Features of fMRI Time Series for 
Alzheimer's Disease Classification Using Graph Neural Networks.

Peng W(1)(2), Li C(#)(3), Ma Y(#)(3), Dai W(3)(4), Fu D(3)(4), Liu L(3)(4), Liu 
L(3)(4), Yu N(5), Liu J(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Information Engineering and Automation, Kunming University of 
Science and Technology, Kunming, 650050, China. weipeng1980@gmail.com.
(2)Computer Technology Application Key Lab of Yunnan Province, Kunming 
University of Science and Technology, Kunming, 650050, China. 
weipeng1980@gmail.com.
(3)Faculty of Information Engineering and Automation, Kunming University of 
Science and Technology, Kunming, 650050, China.
(4)Computer Technology Application Key Lab of Yunnan Province, Kunming 
University of Science and Technology, Kunming, 650050, China.
(5)Department of Computing Sciences, the College at Brockport, State University 
of New York, Brockport, 14422, USA.
(6)Hunan Provincial Key Lab on Bioinformatics, School of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Central South University, Changsha, 410083, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Accurate and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is crucial for timely 
interventions and treatment advancement. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(fMRI), measuring brain blood-oxygen level changes over time, is a powerful 
AD-diagnosis tool. However, current fMRI-based AD diagnosis methods rely on 
noise-susceptible time-domain features and focus only on synchronous 
brain-region interactions in the same time phase, neglecting asynchronous ones. 
To overcome these issues, we propose Frequency-Time Fusion Graph Neural Network 
(FTF-GNN). It integrates frequency- and time-domain features for robust AD 
classification, considering both asynchronous and synchronous brain-region 
interactions. First, we construct a fully connected hypervariate graph, where 
nodes represent brain regions and their Blood Oxygen Level-Dependent (BOLD) 
values at a time series point. A Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) transforms 
these BOLD values from the spatial to the frequency domain for 
frequency-component analysis. Second, a Fourier-based Graph Neural Network 
(FourierGNN) processes the frequency features to capture asynchronous brain 
region connectivity patterns. Third, these features are converted back to the 
time domain and reshaped into a matrix where rows represent brain regions and 
columns represent their frequency-domain features at each time point. Each brain 
region then fuses its frequency-domain features with position encoding along the 
time series, preserving temporal and spatial information. Next, we build a 
brain-region network based on synchronous BOLD value associations and input the 
brain-region network and the fused features into a Graph Convolutional Network 
(GCN) to capture synchronous brain region connectivity patterns. Finally, a 
fully connected network classifies the brain-region features. Experiments on the 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset demonstrate the 
method's effectiveness: Our model achieves 91.26% accuracy and 96.79% AUC in AD 
versus Normal Control (NC) classification, showing promising performance. For 
early-stage detection, it attains state-of-the-art performance in distinguishing 
NC from Late Mild Cognitive Impairment (LMCI) with 87.16% accuracy and 93.22% 
AUC. Notably, in the challenging task of differentiating LMCI from AD, FTF-GNN 
achieves optimal performance (85.30% accuracy, 94.56% AUC), while also 
delivering competitive results (77.40% accuracy, 91.17% AUC) in distinguishing 
Early MCI (EMCI) from LMCI-the most clinically complex subtype classification. 
These results indicate that leveraging complementary frequency- and time-domain 
information, along with considering asynchronous and synchronous brain-region 
interactions, can address existing approach limitations, offering a robust 
neuroimaging-based diagnostic solution.

© 2025. International Association of Scientists in the Interdisciplinary Areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s12539-025-00759-7
PMID: 40753124

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this 
article. Ethical Approval: The all datasets used in this work are all from 
public databases and don’t require ethical approval.


55. Contraception. 2025 Jul 31:111046. doi: 10.1016/j.contraception.2025.111046. 
Online ahead of print.

Racial and ethnic differences in risk for hysterectomy following insertion of a 
levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device: A retrospective cohort study.

Green MJ(1), Doll KM(2), Wood ME(3), Howard AG(4), Anderson LG(1), Mathias 
JG(1), Rivadeneira NA(3), Carey ET(5), Carey TS(6), Nicholson W(7), Stürmer 
T(3), Myers ER(8), Robinson WR(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, NC, United States.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, WA, United States.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States; 
Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, United States.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
(6)Cecil G Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
(7)Department of Prevention and Community Health, Milken Institute School of 
Public Health and Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, George Washington 
School of Medicine and Health Sciences, George Washington University, 
Washington, DC, United States.
(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, NC, United States; Margolis Center for Health Policy, Duke University, 
Durham, NC, United States.
(9)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, NC, United States; Margolis Center for Health Policy, Duke University, 
Durham, NC, United States; Duke-UNC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Durham, 
NC, United States. Electronic address: whitney.robinson489@duke.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Evidence regarding risk for hysterectomy following treatment for 
benign gynecological conditions with a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
device (LNG-IUD) is limited. We assess whether race and ethnicity are associated 
with hysterectomy risk and moderate associations between other patient 
characteristics and hysterectomy risk.
STUDY DESIGN: From health care records (US South; 2014-2019), we identified a 
retrospective cohort of 783 patients (aged 18-44 years; non-Hispanic White 
n = 455; non-Hispanic Black n = 208; Hispanic n = 120) receiving LNG-IUD 
treatment for a benign condition, followed to hysterectomy or study end 
(September 18, 2019). Indices measuring preinsertion bleeding, gynecological 
pain, and bulk symptom severity were abstracted from 4 months' medical records 
preceding insertion. Associations between race and ethnicity, age, symptom 
severity, presence of fibroids and endometriosis, prior IUD use, parity, and 
insurance and hysterectomy risk were investigated with Kaplan-Meier estimates 
and Cox regression.
RESULTS: Seventy-six patients (9.7%) underwent hysterectomy (median follow-up: 
1.7 years). Hysterectomy rates were 7.0% within 1 year, climbing to 14.9% at 
4 years post-insertion. Hysterectomy rates did not differ significantly by race 
and ethnicity. Age at treatment, symptom severity, fibroids, parity, and 
insurance status were associated with hysterectomy, but only age (hazard ratio 
per unit increase: 1.04 [95% CI: 1.00-1.09]), bleeding severity (1.05 
[1.00-1.10]), and bulk severity (1.15 [1.00-1.32]) remained associated with 
adjustment. There was no evidence that race and ethnicity moderated these 
associations.
CONCLUSIONS: We did not find statistically significant differences in 
hysterectomy risk for Black, Hispanic, and White LNG-IUD patients. Patients who 
were older and had more severe pre-insertion uterine bleeding and bulk symptoms 
were more likely to undergo hysterectomy. These associations did not differ by 
race and ethnicity.
IMPLICATIONS: Among patients being treated with LNG-IUDs for benign 
gynecological conditions, Black, Hispanic, and White patients did not differ 
significantly in hysterectomy risk, but older patients and those with more 
severe bleeding and bulk symptoms were more likely to undergo hysterectomies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.contraception.2025.111046
PMID: 40752815


56. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Sep;111:102851. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102851. Epub
2025  Aug 5.

Next-generation CRISPR gene editing tools in the precision treatment of 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.

Meshram HK(1), Gupta SK(2), Gupta A(1), Nagori K(3), Ajazuddin(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Rungta College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Research, Kohka, Bhilai, Durg, Chhattisgarh 490024, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Rungta College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Research, Kohka, Bhilai, Durg, Chhattisgarh 490024, India. Electronic address: 
sanjay.gupta0311@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Rungta College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences and Research, Kohka, Bhilai, Durg, Chhattisgarh 490024, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, Rungta College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Research, Kohka, Bhilai, Durg, Chhattisgarh, 490024, India.

Emerging gene-editing technologies, such as the CRISPR system, represent a 
potential pathway for precision medicine targeting the genetic and molecular 
causes of diseases. Second-generation CRISPR technologies, including base 
editing, prime editing, and engineered Cas variants, have improved fidelity and 
offer alternative strategies for precise gene correction, transcriptional 
repression or activation, and modulation of pathological pathways in 
neurodegeneration. These tools can correct single-nucleotide mutations, reduce 
pathological protein accumulation, and modulate neuroinflammatory responses, all 
integral to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease 
(PD), both chronic, progressive neurodegenerative disorders. Unfortunately, 
currently available treatments are limited and primarily palliative. Preclinical 
studies have shown promising results, with improvements in cognitive and motor 
deficits in animal models. However, significant challenges must be addressed to 
ensure safe and effective delivery to the CNS, minimize off-target effects, and 
address ethical concerns. Current clinical investigations aim to translate these 
findings into available therapeutic options. This review also identifies the 
biological mechanisms, therapeutic use cases, and current limitations of 
next-generation CRISPR systems as tools in the context of AD and PD, providing 
both therapeutic and research capabilities through their unique strengths. 
Ultimately, the future of transactional neurogenomics will determine the 
clinical possibilities of CRISPR-based strategies for advancing 
neurodegenerative disease management beyond palliative and symptomatic 
treatment, toward a feasible mechanistic form of disease modification.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102851
PMID: 40752775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


57. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2025 Sep;392(9):103658. doi:
10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103658.  Epub 2025 Jul 10.

Beyond epilepsy: The expanding role of valproic acid in Alzheimer disease 
therapy - a review.

Markowicz-Piasecka M(1), Miłkowska Z(2), Adla SK(3), Huttunen KM(3), Pietrzak 
B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Pharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland. 
Electronic address: magdalena.markowicz@umed.lodz.pl.
(2)Students Scientific Research Group, Department of Applied Pharmacy, Medical 
University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.

Valproic acid (VPA), a well-established anticonvulsant and mood stabilizer, has 
gained significant attention for its potential neuroprotective effects in 
neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer disease (AD). As a histone 
deacetylase inhibitor, VPA influences gene expression, synaptic plasticity, and 
neuronal survival, making it a promising candidate for therapeutic intervention. 
Preclinical studies have demonstrated that VPA reduces β-amyloid accumulation, 
inhibits tau hyperphosphorylation, modulates oxidative stress, and attenuates 
neuroinflammation-key pathological hallmarks of AD. Additionally, VPA enhances 
neurogenesis and supports synaptic function, further contributing to its 
neuroprotective properties. Despite encouraging in vitro and in vivo findings, 
clinical trials investigating VPA's efficacy in AD have yielded mixed results. 
While some studies reported benefits in managing behavioral symptoms, 
large-scale trials, including the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study 
Valproate Trial, failed to demonstrate significant cognitive improvement and 
revealed notable side effects. These findings highlight the need for further 
research to optimize VPA's clinical application, including targeted drug 
delivery, combination therapies, and patient-specific approaches. This review 
explores the molecular mechanisms underlying VPA's neuroprotective effects, 
evaluates its therapeutic potential in AD and other neurodegenerative disorders, 
and discusses the challenges that must be addressed before its widespread 
clinical implementation. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Valproic acid shows promise for 
treating Alzheimer disease by targeting key pathological mechanisms. This review 
highlights valproic acid's neuroprotective potential, summarizes preclinical and 
clinical findings, and outlines the critical challenges that must be addressed 
to advance its use in Alzheimer disease therapy.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103658
PMID: 40752061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


58. Int J Med Mushrooms. 2025;27(11):51-61. doi: 
10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059827.

Antioxidant Activity and Total Terpenoid Content of Tropicoporus linteus 
Cultivar (Agaricomycetes) Cold Water Extract and In Silico Assessment of 
Potential Neuroprotective Compounds.

Liew KY(1), Aumeeruddy MSUIZ(2), Goh NY(3), Kong BH(4), Tang YQ(2), Ng ST(5), 
Tan CS(6), Fung SY(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Malaya, 50603 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia; Medicinal Mushroom Research Group (MMRG), Department of 
Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Malaya, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia.
(2)School of Biosciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, Taylor's 
University, 47500 Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(3)Medicinal Mushroom Research Group (MMRG), Department of Molecular Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Malaya, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Medicinal Mushroom Research Group, Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(5)LiGNO Research Initiative Department, LiGNO Biotech Sdn. Bhd., 43300 Balakong 
Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(6)LiGNO Research Initiative, LiGNO Biotech Sdn. Bhd., 43300 Balakong Jaya, 
Selangor, Malaysia.
(7)Medicinal Mushroom Research Group (MMRG), Department of Molecular Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Tropicoporus linteus (formerly Phellinus linteus) is a medicinal fungus used in 
China, Korea and Japan for its therapeutic properties. This study assessed the 
antioxidant capabilities of cold-water extract (xSHTM) from a T. linteus 
cultivar (SH02), and its terpenoid content. The potential of bioactive compounds 
in T. linteus as treatment against Alzheimer's disease (AD) was also explored 
with pharmacokinetic prediction via SwissADME and molecular docking. xSHTM is 
found to have high superoxide anion scavenging capability (expressed as trolox 
equivalents (35.10 ± 2.58) mmol/g), and its terpenoid content is expressed as 
490.12 ± 31.51 mg LE/g of extract. SwissADME was used to screen all 68 of the 
compounds contained in T. linteus according to PubChem to identify their 
pharmacokinetic properties. Nine bioactive compounds are selected based on their 
gastrointestinal absorption, lipophilicity, water solubility, violation of 
Lipinski's rule, and the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to 
proceed with molecular docking against common AD treatment targets, 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and β-secretase (BACE1), which revealed 4 compounds 
with high binding affinity (expressed as Kcal/mol). Phellilin B and phellilane L 
showed binding affinities of -8.8 and -8.0, respectively, when docked against 
AChE, while phellinulin L, phellinulin K and phellilin B showed binding 
affinities of -7.4, -7.3 and -7.1 respectively when docked against BACE1.

DOI: 10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059827
PMID: 40752028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Neuromolecular Med. 2025 Aug 2;27(1):55. doi: 10.1007/s12017-025-08878-6.

Platycodin D Attenuates Behavioral Deficits, Amyloid-β Accumulation and 
Mitochondrial Impairment in AD Models by Inhibiting the cGAS-STING Pathway.

Song C(#)(1)(2), Yin G(#)(1), Wang L(1), Zhang F(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250011, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Zibo Central Hospital, Zibo, 255000, China.
(3)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250011, China. 
fxzhang0987@163.com.
(4)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250011, China. fxzhang0987@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

The characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD) include behavioral deficits, 
amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, and mitochondrial impairment. Activating of the 
cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway 
significantly increases the production of inflammatory cytokines, which can 
exacerbate neuroinflammation and accelerate the progression of AD. Platycodin D 
(PD) has been reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective 
properties and is believed to play a role in the progression of AD. Our study 
aimed to investigate the protective effects of PD in AD and to determine whether 
these protective effects are associated with the cGAS-STING pathway. In this 
research, APP/PS1 transgenic mice, an animal model of AD, were administered with 
PD via intracerebroventricular injection. SHSY5Y cells stably transfected with 
APPswe gene (APPswe cells) were used as a cell model of AD and treated with PD. 
Our findings demonstrated that PD attenuated behavioral deficits, Aβ 
accumulation, mitochondrial impairment, and decreased the expression level of 
cGAS-STING pathway proteins (cGAS and STING) as well as inflammatory cytokines 
(TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-18) in AD models. However, cGAMP acts as an agonist of the 
cGAS-STING pathway upregulated the cGAS-STING pathway and inflammatory 
cytokines, exacerbated Aβ accumulation and mitochondrial impairment in APPswe 
cells. In conclusion, our findings suggested that PD attenuated behavioral 
deficits, Aβ accumulation and mitochondrial impairment in AD models by 
inhibiting cGAS-STING pathway.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12017-025-08878-6
PMID: 40751867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


60. Arch Pharm Res. 2025 Aug;48(7-8):814-829. doi: 10.1007/s12272-025-01563-z.
Epub  2025 Aug 2.

Neuroprotective effects of taurine in a rodent model of parkinson's disease 
involve modulating astrocyte-mediated inflammation.

Moon SM(1)(2), Kim J(1), Seol J(1), Yang S(1)(2), Jung D(1)(2), Kim CY(1)(2), 
Kim CS(1), Chung KW(1)(2), Jung YS(1)(2), Chang SC(3), Chung HY(1)(2), Lee 
J(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Pusan National University, Busan, 46241, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Research Institute for Drug Development, Pusan National University, Busan, 
46241, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Cogno-Mechatronics Engineering, College of Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology, Pusan National University, Busan, 46241, Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Pusan National University, Busan, 46241, Republic of 
Korea. neuron@pusan.ac.kr.
(5)Research Institute for Drug Development, Pusan National University, Busan, 
46241, Republic of Korea. neuron@pusan.ac.kr.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
loss of dopaminergic neurons due to oxidative stress and inflammation. Targeting 
inflammation and oxidative stress offers a promising means of slowing PD 
progression. Taurine, a naturally occurring amino sulfonic acid, has 
demonstrated potent antioxidant properties, thereby preventing cell death. While 
taurine has been studied for its potential to restrain the progression of 
Alzheimer's disease and mitigate microglial activation, its impact on astrocyte 
activation in PD models remains underexplored. Here, we found that taurine 
significantly reduces astroglial activation in MPP+-induced primary astrocytes 
by inhibiting the NF-κB pathway. Additionally, in vivo experiments in 
MPTP-induced PD models using male C57BL/6 mice showed that taurine improved 
motor function, protected against dopaminergic neuronal loss, and reduced glial 
activation in the striatum and substantia nigra. These findings highlight that 
the anti-inflammatory effects of taurine involve the inhibition of astroglial 
activation, suggesting that taurine has therapeutic potential in PD.

© 2025. The Pharmaceutical Society of Korea.

DOI: 10.1007/s12272-025-01563-z
PMID: 40751776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: Jaewon Lee 
is an Editor of Archives of Pharmacal Research, but this position did not 
influence the editorial decision or the peer review process of this manuscript. 
The others have no conflict of interest.61. J Drug Target. 2025 Aug 4:1-11. doi: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2538037. Online
ahead  of print.

Neuroprotective effect of rosuvastatin-loaded nanoemulsions against 
lipopolysaccharide-induced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress.

Saberi Z(1)(2), Rostamkhani N(1)(2), Saghatchi Zanjani M(1), Salimi M(1)(2), 
Andalib S(3), Rashidzadeh H(4), Jafari Anarkooli I(5), Karami Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Zanjan Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology Research Center, Zanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(3)Department of Toxicology and Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(4)Zanjan Pharmaceutical Biotechnology Research Center, Zanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(5)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Zanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.

Neuroinflammation is a pathophysiological feature of several neurological 
disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and traumatic 
brain injury, resulting from various intrinsic and environmental triggers. 
However, effective treatments are hindered by challenges in drug delivery to the 
central nervous system, primarily due to the blood-brain barrier. In this study, 
we investigated the potential of rosuvastatin-loaded nanoemulsions for 
neuroinflammation treatment. The mean diameter and zeta potential of developed 
RSV-NEs were 124.8 ± 1.23 nm and -40.5 ± 3.2 mV, respectively. TEM analysis 
revealed the spherical morphology and uniformity of nano-droplets. A cell 
viability study on the PC12 cell line confirmed the safety of RSV-NEs up to the 
concentration of 300 µg/mL. The protective efficacy of orally administrated 
RSV-NEs against LPS-induced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress was assessed 
in SD rats. According to histopathological assessments, LPS-induced damage was 
prevented by RSV-NEs through a neuroprotective effect linked to a reduction in 
GFAP+ cells. Moreover, TBARS levels in the rat brain cortex decreased by 3.9 
times, and the cerebellum's SH increased by 1.7 times in the RSV-NEs-treated 
group compared to the LPS group. These findings suggest that utilising 
nanoemulsion delivery systems may offer improved efficacy for CNS disorders, 
addressing significant challenges in the management of neuroinflammatory 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2538037
PMID: 40751388


62. J Neurosci Res. 2025 Aug;103(8):e70070. doi: 10.1002/jnr.70070.

The Impact of Ketogenic Diet Consumption on the Sporadic Alzheimer's Model 
Through MT1/MT2 Regulation.

Cimen YA(1)(2), Elibol B(3), Korkmaz ND(4), Yuzgulec M(4)(5), Kinsiz B(6), Kutlu 
S(7), Ustunova S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Bezmialem Vakif University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Yalova University, Yalova, 
Turkey.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul Medeniyet 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Van Gevas Community Health Center, Van, Turkey.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology, Beykoz Institute of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Bezmialem Vakif University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(7)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Necmettin Erbakan University, 
Konya, Turkey.

Melatonin and its receptors play a primary role in regulating circadian rhythms, 
which are frequently disrupted in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Furthermore, there is increasing evidence that the use of a ketogenic diet (KD) 
delays the onset of AD. Therefore, we aimed to investigate whether KD has an 
ameliorative effect on AD through the regulation of melatonin receptors. In this 
study, male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups: sham, AD, and 
KD. At the end of KD supplementation, behavioral parameters were determined by 
the Morris Water Maze. Melatonin levels, protein expression levels, and 
immunoreactivity of MT1-MT2 in thehippocampus and striatum were determined by 
ELISA, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence staining, respectively. As a 
result, KD improved memory decline in AD rats. Also, KD increased melatonin 
levels in the hippocampus but did not affect striatum melatonin levels. MT1 
expression tended to increase in the hippocampus of the AD group, while MT2 
expression decreased. On the contrary, KD treatment increased both MT1 and MT2 
expressions. In the striatum, there was no change in MT1 expression in the AD 
and KD groups, but MT2 expression increased in the AD group compared with the 
sham group and was suppressed in the KD group. In addition, KD treatment reduced 
streptozotocin-induced apoptosis and neuroinflammation in the hippocampus and 
striatum. Our results suggest that KD may improve AD-associated inflammation and 
apoptosis by altering melatonin levels and the expression of MT2 receptors in 
the hippocampus and striatum. Therefore, KD may be a promising preventive and 
therapeutic option for AD.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.70070
PMID: 40751333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Nov;12(9):100317. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100317.  Epub 2025 Jul 31.

Psychiatry meets neurodegeneration - A collaborative approach to dementia 
prevention.

Kurz C(1), Haupt M(2), Auer S(3), Lautenschlager N(4), Kurz A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, LMU University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, 80336 Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
carolin.kurz@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Department of the History, Philosophy and Ethics of Medicine, Heinrich Heine 
University, Düsseldorf, Germany; Teaching practice of the Clinic and Polyclinic 
for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy of the Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, 
Germany.
(3)Department for Dementia Research and Care Science, University for Continuing 
Education Krems, Austria.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia; Royal Melbourne Hospital Mental Health Services, Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Centre for Cognitive Disorders, 
School of Medicine, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.

The advent of amyloid-targeting therapies and biomarker-based risk 
stratification has transformed the understanding of Alzheimer's disease and 
related disorders. These conditions are now recognized as chronic, detectable 
and modifiable, often presenting decades before clinical symptoms appear. While 
this paradigm shift enables earlier intervention, it also raises ethical and 
psychological challenges that necessitate a redefined role for psychiatry. 
Instead of merely supporting late-stage care, psychiatry is well-placed to 
facilitate risk communication, promote resilience, and encourage adaptive 
behavior in individuals navigating preclinical or prodromal neurodegeneration. 
This article outlines an ethical, stepwise communication framework, clarifies 
the distinction between diagnosis and probabilistic risk, and explores 
psychiatric contributions-from motivational models to lifestyle-based 
prevention-that bridge the gap between biological insight and subjective 
experience. By reinterpreting risk as a chance for intervention rather than 
resignation, psychiatry broadens the therapeutic scope and helps safeguard 
independence, dignity and quality of life-making it a pivotal participant in 
dementia prevention and individualized, person-centered care.

Crown Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100317
PMID: 40750515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


64. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 Oct 22;420:111681. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111681.
Epub  2025 Jul 30.

N-Propargylpyrrolidine-based butyrylcholinesterase and monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors.

Košak U(1), Knez D(1), Pišlar A(1), Horvat S(1), Žakelj S(1), Igert A(2), Dias 
J(2), Nachon F(2), Brazzolotto X(2), Gobec S(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Aškerčeva 7, 1000, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.
(2)Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Département de Toxicologie et 
Risques Chimiques, Brétigny sur Orge, 91220, France.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Aškerčeva 7, 1000, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia. Electronic address: stanislav.gobec@ffa.uni-lj.si.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitors are or could be used for the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease, canine cognitive dysfunction, depression, multiple 
sclerosis, heroin abuse and metabolic disorders. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) 
inhibitors are or could be used for the treatment of depression, anxiety, 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, cancer, cardiovascular disease and 
chronic inflammatory diseases. We have designed, synthesized, and evaluated ten 
new N-propargylpyrrolidine-based inhibitors of these enzymes. Sulfonamide 10 is 
the most potent human (h)BChE (IC50 = 0.203 μM) of the series, and secondary 
carboxamide 1 is a time-dependent and irreversible inhibitor of hMAO-A 
(IC50 = 6.42 μM) and hMAO-B (IC50 = 7.83 μM). The X-ray crystal structures of 
carboxamide 4 [IC50(hBChE) = 3.89 μM] and sulfonamide 10 with hBChE confirmed 
our previous observation that carboxamides and sulfonamides have distinct 
binding poses in the active site of hBChE. The X-ray crystal structure of the 
complex of pyrrolidine 4 with hBChE also revealed a distinct binding pose 
compared to its direct piperidine analogue (PDB code 5LKR). Furthermore, 
compounds 1 and 10 should be able to cross the blood-brain barrier, exhibit low 
cytotoxicity (>50 μM) in two cell lines and protect against amyloid 
β1-42-induced neuronal cell death.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111681
PMID: 40750068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


65. Complement Ther Med. 2025 Oct;93:103222. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2025.103222.
Epub  2025 Jul 30.

The potential of acupuncture in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease: An 
exploration from traditional Chinese medicine to modern technology.

Wang M(1), Zhang L(2), Huang W(3), Huang J(4), Luo Y(5), Huang N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China. 
Electronic address: 1330209337@qq.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China. 
Electronic address: 1573067149@qq.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China. 
Electronic address: 1239009959@qq.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology and Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, Zunyi Medical University, 
Guizhou 563000, China; Chinese Pharmacological Society-Guizhou Province Joint 
Laboratory for Pharmacology, Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China. Electronic address: 
huangjuan720@zmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurology, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China; 
Department of Geriatrics, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University 
(The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China. Electronic 
address: luoyong@zmu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Geriatrics, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 563000, China; 
National Drug Clinical Trial Institution, Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi 
Medical University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi), Zunyi, Guizhou 
563000, China. Electronic address: hnq@zmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease with the highest 
prevalence worldwide, and it places considerable life and economic burdens on 
patients and their families. Currently, treatments for AD only delay symptoms, 
fail to reverse disease progression, and are often accompanied by significant 
side effects. Acupuncture, a nonpharmacological therapeutic method originating 
from China, has a history of thousands of years and is characterized by safety 
and economy. In recent years, the potential of acupuncture use in AD treatment 
has received widespread attention. With the rapid development of modern science 
and technology, the mechanism of action of acupuncture in the treatment of AD 
has gradually become increasingly clear. Therefore, we searched the databases of 
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), PubMed and Web of Science for 
relevant studies on acupuncture for AD in recent years. According to the 
literature, acupuncture can improve cognitive function in AD patients through 
various mechanisms, such as reducing β-amyloid deposition, inhibiting Tau 
protein hyperphosphorylation, and attenuating neuroinflammation, and shows good 
therapeutic potential. Future studies should further explore in depth the 
mechanisms of acupuncture in treating AD through the rational use of modern 
science and technology techniques, with the aim of providing new strategies for 
the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2025.103222
PMID: 40749808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


66. Int J Med Mushrooms. 2025;27(10):7-19. doi:
10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059428.

Mushrooms: Potential Agents for the Prevention and Slowdown of Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Review.

Galić M(1), Ćilerdžić J(2), Stajic M(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Biology, Takovska 43, 11000 Belgrade, 
Serbia.
(2)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Biology, Studentski trg 16, 11000 
Belgrade, Serbia.

Alzheimer's disease as a neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by a 
decline in cognitive abilities that makes it difficult or impossible to perform 
ordinary tasks. It is the most common form of dementia and its exact causes are 
still unknown. Approximately 45.0 million people are affected by this disease, 
which is the leading cause of death worldwide. Although numerous commercial 
drugs are available on the world market, many of them have mutagenic, toxic, 
carcinogenic and other side effects. Therefore, today the world's trend is use 
of natural products without any harmful effects. Edible and medicinal mushrooms 
as producers of numerous biologically active compounds, such as polysaccharides, 
proteins, sterols, terpenoids, etc., could be a safe and effective 
neuroprotective agents and a promising therapy for patients with Alzheimer's 
disease. Mushrooms are highly valued functional foods and diet supplementation 
with them could significantly reduce the risk of apparence of Alzheimer's 
disease or slow down its development. The results of numerous studies have shown 
that the addition of mushrooms to the diet not only increases the effectiveness 
of conventional drugs but also reduces their harmful effects. However, despite 
numerous studies on mushrooms' medicinal properties, much more in vivo research 
and clinical trials are still needed to fully understand the potential of 
mushrooms for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease, as well as to 
determine their optimal administration. Reviewing all the results so far and 
considering future necessary studies were the main aims of this review article.

DOI: 10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059428
PMID: 40749181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2025 Aug 1:nlaf093. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf093.
Online  ahead of print.

Proteasomal dysfunction in the mouse forebrain induces mitochondrial DNA 
release, cGAS-STING signaling activation, and necroptosis.

Dwamena A(1)(2)(3), Asadi Y(1)(2)(3), Gilstrap E(1)(2)(3), Wang H(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, United States.
(2)Garrison Institute on Aging, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX, United States.
(3)Center of Excellence for Translational Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Texas 
Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, United States.

Impaired proteasome function is associated with various neurodegenerative 
disorders that are hallmarked by neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, 
including Alzheimer disease (AD); however, the relationships between these 
phenomena remain unclear. By utilizing a neuron-specific Psmc1 conditional 
knockout (cKO) mouse model in which one of the 19S proteasome is disrupted, we 
studied the effect of impaired proteasome function on neuroinflammation and 
neuronal death in the brain. We discovered that disrupting the 19S proteasome 
led to increased release of mitochondrial double-stranded DNA into the cytosol, 
upregulated levels of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), stimulator of interferon 
gene (STING), phosphorylated TBK1, and IRF3, and the downstream pro-inflammatory 
mediators, including STAT1, NF-κB, IL-1β, IL-6, and TNFα in the cKO mouse brains 
as compared to control brains. Importantly, we also observed reduced brain 
weight and elevation in levels of factors involved in necroptosis, ie the mixed 
lineage kinase domain-like (MLKL) protein, phosphorylated MLKL, and 
receptor-interacting protein kinases (RIPK) 1 and 3 in the cKO mouse brains. 
Together, our data suggest that proteasome dysfunction activates the cGAS-STING 
pathway and induces neuroinflammation and necroptotic neuronal death.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf093
PMID: 40748785


68. J Music Ther. 2025 Aug 1;62(2):thaf012. doi: 10.1093/jmt/thaf012.

Practitioners' Experiences and Recommendations Providing Music Teletherapy for 
People With Alzheimer's Dementia.

Silverman MJ(1), Cevasco-Trotter AM(2), Yuan SH(3)(4), Hemmy L(4)(5), Wang S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Music, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)School of Music, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, School of Medicine, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Care (GRECC), Minneapolis VA 
Healthcare System, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, School of Medicine, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Although practitioners have delivered music therapy via telehealth and 
researchers have investigated music teletherapy (MTT) using descriptive 
techniques, there is a lack of knowledge regarding how to implement MTT for 
people with Alzheimer's dementia (AD). A contextualized understanding of MTT for 
people with AD from experienced music therapists may help develop guidelines and 
protocols to increase access to and improve MTT. Therefore, the purpose of this 
study was to understand music therapists' lived experiences and recommendations 
providing MTT for people with AD. We conducted individual semistructured 
interviews with 8 qualified music therapists in the United States who had 
clinical experience in MTT for people with AD. We analyzed the data using 
thematic analysis and completed member checks to increase trustworthiness of the 
data and process. We identified 9 categories: (1) strength-based 
reconceptualization, (2) service users who can benefit from MTT, (3) clinical 
objectives in MTT, (4) interventions in MTT, (5) logistical aspects of MTT, (6) 
procedural implementation aspects, (7) technology considerations, (8) benefits 
of MTT, and (9) music therapists experienced meaningful fulfillment providing 
MTT. Categories were supported by 23 subcategories that provide situated context 
for providing MTT for people with AD. When integrated with an individualized 
assessment, the findings may help practitioners implement MTT for people with 
AD. Implications for clinical practice, limitations, and suggestions for future 
research are provided.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Music Therapy Association. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmt/thaf012
PMID: 40748675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Aug 1. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04446-8. Online ahead of print.

Alzheimer's disease: unraveling role of xanthone derivatives and nanocarriers.

Suhaili INA(1), Yow HY(2)(3), Mah SH(4), Zaman Huri H(5), Tan SLJ(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Neuroscience Research Group (NeuRG), Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Malaya, 
50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)School of Biosciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, Taylor's 
University, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universiti Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. janet.tan@um.edu.my.
(7)Neuroscience Research Group (NeuRG), Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Malaya, 
50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. janet.tan@um.edu.my.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by 
cognitive decline, memory impairment, and neuronal loss. Xanthones, a class of 
polyphenolic compounds, have shown potential neuroprotective effects in AD due 
to their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and acetylcholinesterase inhibitory 
properties. However, their therapeutic use is limited by low bioavailability and 
restricted blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration. This review highlights the 
novelty of bridging the therapeutic findings of xanthone derivatives with 
brain-targeted nano-based delivery systems, while identifying gaps for 
pre-clinical development. A literature review was conducted focusing on the 
pathophysiology of AD, current therapeutic strategies, the pharmacological 
properties of xanthone derivatives and recent advancements in nano-based drug 
delivery systems for xanthone delivery to the brain. The literature search was 
performed across the PubMed database to identify relevant articles published 
until January 2025. Evidence from preclinical studies suggests that xanthone 
derivatives possess multiple neuroprotective properties that can weaken the AD 
pathophysiology. These compounds can reduce oxidative stress, suppress 
neuroinflammatory responses, and improve neurotransmission. Besides improving 
the solubility, recent nanoformulations of α-mangostin, particularly polymer 
nanoparticles, have demonstrated the potential to overcome the BBB through the 
enhancement of low-density lipoprotein receptor expression in microglia. Animal 
studies show improved cognitive outcomes and neuroprotection when xanthones are 
delivered via nanocarriers, highlighting their disease-modifying 
potential. Xanthone-loaded nanocarriers represent a promising disease-modifying 
strategy for AD as they enhance bioavailability and therapeutic outcomes. Future 
validation of nanoformulations through clinical trials and development of 
multi-targeted approaches paves the way for innovative and patient-centered 
neurotherapies, holding significant promise for AD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-04446-8
PMID: 40748474

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


70. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2025 Aug;31(4):956-978. doi: 
10.1212/cont.0000000000001604. Epub 2025 Aug 1.

Dementia With Lewy Bodies.

Patel BR.

OBJECTIVE: This article reviews the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies, the 
prodromal phase of dementia with Lewy bodies, and management of the disease.
LATEST DEVELOPMENTS: The diagnostic criteria and characterization of syndromes 
for prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies facilitate earlier recognition of 
individuals at risk of Lewy body dementia. Earlier diagnosis may prevent 
iatrogenic complications, guide families to seek appropriate resources, and 
provide an opportunity for future therapeutic interventions in the clinical 
prodrome. Advances in biomarkers include the detection of phosphorylated 
α-synuclein in cutaneous nerve fibers and the CSF α-synuclein seed amplification 
assay.
ESSENTIAL POINTS: Dementia with Lewy bodies is a complex disease that requires 
an interdisciplinary approach to optimize diagnosis and management. Frequently 
occurring copathology, most commonly with Alzheimer disease, leads to greater 
cognitive decline, increased likelihood of admission to a long-term care 
facility, and a higher risk of mortality. Use of available biomarkers may better 
guide appropriate diagnosis and management.

DOI: 10.1212/cont.0000000000001604
PMID: 40748123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70402. doi: 10.1002/alz.70402.

Neurovascular coupling and functional connectivity changes through the 
Alzheimer's disease spectrum: Effects of simvastatin treatment.

Zimmer AR(1)(2), Bourourou M(2), Lesage F(3), Hamel E(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Science, Federal University of Rio Grande 
do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Cerebrovascular Research, Montreal Neurological 
Institute-Hospital, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canadá.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering, Ecole Polytechnique de Montréal, 
Montréal, Quebec, Canadá.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of dementia, with 
vascular dysfunction being an early pathogenic event. Cardiovascular 
interventions show therapeutic promise, hence may improve neurovascular coupling 
(NVC) and resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) hemodynamic responses.
METHODS: NVC and RSFC were recorded longitudinally in control and AD transgenic 
mice treated or not with simvastatin (SV) using optical imaging of intrinsic 
signals (OIS), together with memory testing.
RESULTS: AD mice showed early decreases in NVC and bilateral connectivity (BC) 
in motor and cingulate cortex, and hypoconnectivity within the sensory-motor 
network. Early default-mode network (DMN) hyperconnectivity was followed by 
hypoconnectivity, together with a decreased BC in somatosensory (S) cortex. SV 
restored NVC, prevented aberrant DMN hyperconnectivity, improved BC of S, and 
preserved memory.
DISCUSSION: Our results indicate that OIS can detect early AD-related changes in 
NVC and RSFC, and that a preventive cardiovascular strategy may bear therapeutic 
promise in at-risk individuals.
HIGHLIGHTS: Optical imaging of intrinsic signals captures Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) progression and response to therapy. Neurovascular coupling (NVC) and 
resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) disruptions precede memory decline 
in AD transgenic mice. Simvastatin prevented NVC and AD-specific RSFC 
disruptions and protected memory. This study supports translational value of 
hemodynamic signal in early AD detection.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70402
PMCID: PMC12314550
PMID: 40747637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


72. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70502. doi: 10.1002/alz.70502.

Early microglial and astrocyte reactivity in preclinical Alzheimer's disease.

Fernández-Matarrubia M(1)(2)(3), Valera-Barrero A(1), Renuncio-García M(2)(4), 
Aguilella M(1)(2), Lage C(1)(2)(3)(5), López-García S(1)(2)(3), Ocejo-Vinyals 
JG(2)(4), Martínez-Dubarbie F(1)(2)(3), Molfetta GD(6), Pozueta-Cantudo A(1)(2), 
García-Martínez M(1)(2), Corrales-Pardo A(1)(2), Bravo M(1)(2), López-Hoyos 
M(2)(4)(7), Irure-Ventura J(2)(4), Blennow K(6)(8)(9)(10), Ashton 
NJ(6)(11)(12)(13), Zetterberg H(6)(8)(14)(15)(16)(17), Sánchez-Juan P(2)(18), 
Rodríguez-Rodríguez E(1)(2)(3)(19).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Service, Marqués de Valdecilla University Hospital, Santander, 
Cantabria, Spain.
(2)Institute for Research Marqués de Valdecilla (IDIVAL), Santander, Cantabria, 
Spain.
(3)CIBERNED, Network Center for Biomedical Research in Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, National Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Immunology Department, Marqués de Valdecilla University Hospital, Santander, 
Spain.
(5)Atlantic Fellow for Equity in Brain health, Global Brain Health Institute, 
University of California, San Francisco, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(7)Molecular Biology Department, University of Cantabria, Santander, Spain.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(11)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(12)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, Maurice Wohl Clinical 
Neuroscience Institute, King's College London, London, UK.
(13)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(15)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(16)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(17)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(18)Alzheimer's Centre Reina Sofia-CIEN Foundation-ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
(19)Deparment of Medicine and Psychiatry, University of Cantabria, Santander, 
Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The role of neuroinflammation in preclinical Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) remains unclear.
METHODS: We assessed changes in microglial and astrocytic biomarkers in a 
well-characterized cohort of 211 cognitively unimpaired individuals. Structural 
equation modeling was used to simultaneously assess all relationships among 
microglial and astrocytic responses and AD pathological events.
RESULTS: Plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) were 
increased in preclinical AD. Plasma GFAP showed an inverse bidirectional 
relationship with CSF amyloid beta (Aβ)42/40. CSF sTREM2 directly influenced CSF 
phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181) and neurogranin, and correlated with CSF S100 
calcium-binding protein beta (S100β). CSF chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40) 
mediated the association between CSF p-tau181 and total tau (t-tau), whereas CSF 
S100β and neurofilament light showed mutual influence.
DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that microglial and astrocyte reactivity, 
measured through fluid biomarkers, occur early and impact the amyloid cascade on 
the preclinical Alzheimer´s continuum. Specifically, GFAP influences amyloid 
accumulation, sTREM2 promotes tau pathology, and YKL-40 and S100β contribute to 
the progression of downstream neurodegenerative changes.
HIGHLIGHTS: Preclinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) showed increased levels of 
plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and soluble triggering receptor 
expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) compared to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 
healthy subjects. Higher plasma GFAP levels was directly associated with lower 
CSF amyloid beta (Aβ)42/Aβ40. Higher CSF sTREM2 concentrations increased CSF 
phosphorylated tau-181. Chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40) mediated tau-induced 
neurodegeneration. S100 calcium-binding protein beta (S100β) was directly linked 
to higher neurofilament light (NfL) and showed a mutual relationship with 
sTREM2.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70502
PMCID: PMC12314543
PMID: 40747577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.B. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, Beckman Coulter, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Neurimmune, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, Sanofi, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on data‐monitoring 
committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced 
educational materials, and participated in educational programs for Biogen, 
Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions 
in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this article. H.Z. has served on scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp & 
Dohme, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, LabCorp, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Oy Medix Biochemica AB, 
Roche, and WebMD; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg 
AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside the 
submitted work). The other authors report no conflicts of interest. The author 
disclosures are to be found in the Supplementary Information.


73. Br J Occup Ther. 2025 Feb 5;88(8):467-478. doi: 10.1177/03080226251314978. 
eCollection 2025 Aug.

Effects of cognitive stimulation group programs in patients with mild 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kwon D(1), Kim D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Davinci Hospital, Daejeon, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Occupational Therapy, College of Health & Medical Sciences, 
Cheongju University, Cheongju, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVES: This study examined the effects of a cognitive stimulation group 
program on cognitive functions, depression, activities of daily living (ADL), 
and quality of life in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: Sixty patients with mild AD were randomized into the experimental or 
control groups (30 in each). Both groups underwent conventional occupational 
therapy for 30 minutes, followed by a 50-minute session of a cognitive 
stimulation group program for the experimental group and a cognitive workbook 
group program for the control group. Interventions for both groups were carried 
out for 4 weeks, five times a week, and once a day.
RESULTS: After the interventions, both groups showed significant differences in 
cognitive functions, depression, ADL, and quality of life (p < 0.01, p < 0.001), 
with the experimental group demonstrating slightly higher scores in all 
assessment items. Significant intergroup differences were found in the scores 
for memory, the shortened Korean version of the Boston Naming Test, the Elderly 
Seoul Verbal Learning Test, the Korean version of the Trail Making Test Part A 
(depression), the Korean version of the Instrumental ADL scale, and quality of 
life (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: It has been shown that the cognitive simulation group program can be 
an effective intervention method to reduce the depression of mild AD patients 
and improve cognitive function, ADL, and quality of life. In addition, it is 
significant that various enjoyable activities were organized for each cognitive 
domain to induce active participation and motivation of the subjects. It is 
expected that this study can be usefully used as a guideline for the treatment 
of AD patients in the future.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/03080226251314978
PMCID: PMC12308060
PMID: 40747287

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


74. Lancet Reg Health Am. 2025 Jul 25;49:101198. doi: 10.1016/j.lana.2025.101198.
 eCollection 2025 Sep.

Evaluating polygenic risk score prediction performance for Alzheimer's disease 
in a population-based Hispanic cohort using single- and multi-ancestry models.

Xu Y(1)(2), Qiao M(1)(2), Gunasekaran TI(1)(2), Gu Y(1)(2)(3), Reyes-Dumeyer 
D(1)(2), Piriz A(1), Sanchez D(1)(2), Soriano B(4), Franco Y(5), Coronado ZD(6), 
Recio P(7), Mejia DR(7)(4), Medrano M(8), Lantigua RA(1)(9), Honig L(1)(2)(3), 
Manly JJ(1)(2)(3), Brickman AM(1)(2)(3), Vardarajan BN(1)(2), Mayeux R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(2)G.H. Sergievsky Center, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Universidad Nacional Pedro Henríquez Urena, Santo Domingo, Dominican 
Republic.
(5)Clinica Corominas, Santiago, Dominican Republic.
(6)Clínica Gregorio Hernandez, Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic.
(7)CEDIMAT, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
(8)Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra (PUCMM), Santiago, Dominican 
Republic.
(9)Department of Medicine, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Polygenic risk score (PRS) is effective in predicting 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) risk among Europeans but remains understudied in 
Hispanics. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) based on multiple ancestries 
can improve PRS prediction. We used GWAS data from the largest available 
African, European, and Hispanic populations and performed PRS analyses using 
novel methodologies to evaluate the performance of single- and multi-ancestry 
PRS models in predicting AD risk among Hispanic population.
METHODS: Prediction performance of Apolipoprotein-E (APOE), single-ancestry PRS, 
and multi-ancestry PRS derived from GWAS-focused and method-focused approaches 
to clinical AD, incident AD, and cognition and were evaluated in 2961 Hispanic 
people from two large studies. The GWAS-focused approach constructs PRS based on 
multi-ancestry GWAS, while the method-focused approach uses novel multi-ancestry 
PRS methods, integrating GWAS summary statistics across ancestries. Ten 
repetitions of 5-fold cross-validation were used. In a subset, plasma biomarker 
data were used in a tuning-validation split to examine PRS performance in 
predicting single and combined biomarkers.
FINDINGS: The multi-ancestry PRS excluding APOE, constructed using the 
method-focused approach, outperformed both single-ancestry and multi-ancestry 
PRSs from the GWAS-focused approach. The best method-focused PRS, incorporating 
summary statistics from GWASs of African, European, and Hispanic populations, 
explained up to 1.6%, 3.9%, and 1.7% of the variance in clinical AD, incident 
AD, and cognition, respectively-comparable to, or even higher than, the variance 
explained by the APOE. Similar findings were observed in biomarker analyses. 
APOE accounted for more variation in plasma P-tau levels and PRS explained more 
variation in Aβ levels.
INTERPRETATION: Integrating novel multi-ancestry PRS methods (e.g., 
PROSPER/PRS-CSx) with GWAS across ancestries enhances prediction accuracy for AD 
risk among Hispanic population. APOE and PRS may point to different biological 
aspects of AD.
FUNDING: National Institutes of Health R01 AG072474, RF1 AG066107, 5R37AG015473, 
RF1AG015473, R56AG051876, R01 AG067501, and UL1TR001873.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lana.2025.101198
PMCID: PMC12312067
PMID: 40747112

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Adam M. Brickman has served as a consultant 
for Cogstate, Cognito Therapeutics, Cognition Therapeutics, IQVIA, CogniScreen, 
Tau Biosciences, and the University of Michigan. He has received honoraria for 
lectures from Celdara and travel support from the International 
Neuropsychological Society and the American Heart Association. Dr. Brickman is a 
co-inventor on U.S. Patent No. 9,867,566 and on a pending patent application 
(U.S. Publication No. 20230298170). He is a member of a Data Safety Monitoring 
Board/Advisory Board for the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and 
served as Section Editor for Alzheimer's & Dementia. He also holds stock options 
in Tau Biosciences and CogniScreen. Dr. Lawrence Honig has received research 
funding from NIH/NINDS, NIH/NIA, NYSDOH, Acumen, Alector, Alnylam, Biogen, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Cognition, EIP/Cervomed, Eisai, Ferrer, Genentech/Roche, 
GSK, Janssen/Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Transposon, UCB, and Vaccinex. He has 
served as a consultant for Biogen, Corium, Medscape, New Amsterdam, Eisai, and 
Genentech/Roche, and is a member of a Data Safety Monitoring Board/Advisory 
Board for Prevail/Lilly. Dr. Jennifer J. Manly has received research funding 
from NIA, NINDS, and NIH. She has served as a consultant for the University of 
Mississippi and the RAND Corporation, received honoraria for lectures from the 
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and received travel support from the Alzheimer's 
Association. All other authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.


75. Front Neurol. 2025 Jul 17;16:1615152. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1615152. 
eCollection 2025.

Biomarkers and therapeutic targets in early Alzheimer's disease: an Olink 
proteomics study.

Wei J(#)(1), Ni H(#)(1), Liu W(2), Xu H(2), Wang C(2), Geng G(2), He Z(1), Chen 
G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Affiliated Xuzhou Clinical College of Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 
Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: This study aims to analyze differential expression of 
inflammation-related proteins in plasma from patients with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) and early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD), for exploring 
potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for AD, providing new possibilities 
for the early diagnosis of AD and the theoretical basis for the subsequent 
targeted therapy.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: The study included 30 adults: 10 healthy control 
subjects (HC group), 10 patients with AD [AD group, positron emission tomography 
(PET)-confirmed] and 10 with MCI (MCI group, PET negative). We carried out 
Proximity Extension Assay (PEA) on 92 inflammation-related proteins in the 
plasma samples of these 30 participants by using the Olink proteomics 
technology. Subsequently, to evaluate the clinical translational potential of 
these Differentially Expressed Proteins (DEPs) as early AD biomarkers and their 
potential mechanisms of action, we performed Receiver Operator Characteristic 
(ROC) curve analysis and functional enrichment analysis on these proteins.
RESULTS: Compared with the HC group, uPA, CX3CL1, CDCP1, Flt3L, SCF and TWEAK 
proteins were significantly upregulated in AD group, with Area Under the ROC 
Curve (AUC) values of 0.96 (p = 0.001), 0.90 (p = 0.002), 0.87 (p = 0.005), 0.77 
(p = 0.018), 0.89 (p = 0.003) and 0.75 (p = 0.041), respectively, and cutoff 
values of 10.083 pg./mL, 3.411 pg./mL, 3.391 pg./mL, 9.038 pg./mL, 8.984 pg./mL 
and 8.998 pg./mL. Similarly, in MCI group, uPA and CDCP1 also exhibited 
upregulation, with AUC values of 0.92 (p = 0.001) and 0.83 (p = 0.013), and 
cutoff values of 10.133 pg./mL and 3.803 pg./mL, respectively. These DEPs may be 
implicated in pathological processes such as neuroinflammation, neuronal death, 
and synaptic dysfunction.
CONCLUSION: Using Olink proteomics technology, this study identified several 
plasma inflammatory proteins associated with AD, which were proposed as 
potential biomarkers for early diagnosis. While these findings provided novel 
insights into early AD screening and molecular mechanisms, and suggested 
possible therapeutic targets, several limitations were noted. The study's modest 
sample size and cross-sectional design limited the ability to assess dynamic 
changes in these biomarkers during disease progression. Future large-scale 
longitudinal studies should validate their clinical utility.

Copyright © 2025 Wei, Ni, Liu, Xu, Wang, Geng, He and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1615152
PMCID: PMC12310730
PMID: 40746641

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


76. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2025 Jul;24(3):198-207. doi: 
10.12779/dnd.2025.24.3.198. Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Nationwide Survey on the Awareness of Mild Cognitive Impairment.

Kwon HS(1), Park KH(2), Lee JS(3), Choi H(1), Lee CN(4), Lim JS(5), Jang JW(6), 
Shim Y(7), Choi SH(8), Yang DW(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Hanyang University 
College of Medicine, Guri, Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Gachon 
University College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University Hospital, Kyung Hee University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University Hospital, Chuncheon, 
Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Neurology, Inha University Hospital, Inha University College of 
Medicine, Incheon, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), particularly due to 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), is an important stage for early intervention. We aim 
to assess awareness among the general population of MCI and AD, and evaluate 
their willingness to pay for treatment that delays the progression to dementia.
METHODS: A nationwide cross-sectional telephone survey was conducted from August 
29 to 31, 2022, targeting adults aged ≥18 years in the Republic of Korea. In 
toto, 1,006 respondents were randomly selected via a proportional allocation 
based on age, sex, and region. The survey consisted of 11 questions covering 
demographic information, awareness of MCI and AD, understanding of diagnostic 
procedures, such as amyloid positron emission tomography (PET), and willingness 
to pay for disease-modifying treatment.
RESULTS: Among the respondents, 41.3% had heard of MCI, but only 12.0% were well 
informed. Some 77.0% stated that if they experienced cognitive decline, they 
would visit a hospital. Only 12.4% of respondents knew the important role of 
amyloid PET in diagnosing MCI due to AD. Regarding the treatment costs of 
disease-modifying drugs, 42.1% were willing to pay <600,000 KRW (approximately 
420 USD) per month, while 18.4% were unwilling to pay. Older age and lower 
socioeconomic status were significantly associated with decreased willingness to 
pay (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Public awareness of MCI is limited, and willingness to pay 
decreases with older age and lower socioeconomic status. Targeted education and 
strategies are therefore required to increase awareness and reduce disparities.

© 2025 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2025.24.3.198
PMCID: PMC12310333
PMID: 40746342

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


77. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):452-476. doi: 10.1177/13872877251362212.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

Proteomic and non-proteomic changes of presynaptic proteins in animal models of 
Alzheimer's disease: A meta-analysis 2015-2023.

Anschuetz A(1), Schwab K(1), Harrington CR(1)(2), Wischik CM(1)(2), Riedel G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, UK.
(2)TauRx Therapeutics Ltd, Aberdeen, UK.

BackgroundSynaptic proteins are often used as markers for synaptic damage in 
non-clinical models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and are known to be affected 
early in the disease in humans. Presynaptic protein loss has been shown to be 
especially strong in patients, though not all proteins and brain areas are 
affected equally.ObjectiveTo investigate whether presynaptic protein loss is 
similarly heterogenous in non-clinical AD models, a meta-analysis was conducted 
in rodent models of the disease.MethodsPubMed, Embase, and Medline databases 
were searched for publications measuring presynaptic markers in AD rodent model 
brains between 2015-2023. A total of 1333 records arose from the searches, and 
these were screened for suitable studies. Meta-analyses on global presynaptic 
protein changes, protein-, area- and model-specific effects amongst others were 
performed on 184 studies. Studies employing proteomic approaches for protein 
quantification were analyzed separately from non-proteomic studies.ResultsRobust 
and significant global loss of presynaptic proteins was observed in these animal 
models. The effect size varied between different model types, with the greatest 
effects being observed in models in which either tau was genetically modified or 
where amyloid-β injection was used. The greatest severity was seen in 
hippocampal subregions and for proteins associated with the vesicle release 
machinery (SNARE proteins).ConclusionsProteomic studies confirmed that 
presynaptic proteins were most frequently lower in AD models relative to 
control, although some proteins were increased. Multiple presynaptic proteins 
were found to be altered in proteomic meta-analysis and some of these may 
constitute putative biomarkers that warrant further investigation.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251362212
PMCID: PMC12417620
PMID: 40746076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data availability statementAll 
data are available within the paper and its Supplemental Material.


78. Med Res Rev. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.1002/med.70005. Online ahead of print.

Digital Therapeutics for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases: Current Trends 
and Future Perspectives.

Jeong YJ(1)(2)(3), Lee HJ(1)(2), Kim JS(2), Kim SJ(2), Jo U(2), Park JY(2), Jun 
SJ(2), Lee WS(2), Song M(4), Kim D(5), Cho G(6), Song JH(2), Hoe HS(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research Institute 
(KBRI), Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)AI-based Neurodevelopmental Diseases Digital Therapeutics Group, Korea Brain 
Research Institute (KBRI), Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of 
Science & Technology, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(4)StoneLab Inc., Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(5)Digital Health Division, Daegu Digital Innovation Promotion Agency, Daegu, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biophysics, Institute of Quantum Biology, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), which are characterized 
by the accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates and cognitive/motor 
dysfunction, are the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs). Despite 
strategic investigations aimed at augmenting the pharmaceutical pipeline, 
available drugs for AD and PD merely slow disease progression without curing or 
treating the underlying pathology. Recent technological advances have given rise 
to digital therapeutics (DTx): software systems that aim to prevent, cure, and 
manage specific diseases, including NDDs. For AD and PD, the majority of DTx 
focus on enhancing cognitive/executive function and motor-related functions, 
respectively. In this review, we describe the status of therapeutic development 
for AD and PD, as well as the characteristics and status of DTx targeting these 
NDDs. In addition, we address the limitations and challenges of DTx and their 
implications for the treatment of AD and PD. Ultimately, this review provides 
insights into the potential of DTx as a therapeutic modality and future 
directions for the development of DTx targeting AD and PD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Medicinal Research Reviews published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/med.70005
PMID: 40745950


79. BMC Med Imaging. 2025 Jul 31;25(1):309. doi: 10.1186/s12880-025-01836-5.

TA-SSM net: tri-directional attention and structured state-space model for 
enhanced MRI-Based diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive 
impairment.

Bao S(#)(1), Zheng F(#)(1), Jiang L(2)(3), Wang Q(4), Lyu Y(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer and Information Engineering, Tianjin Normal University, 
Tianjin, 300387, PR China.
(2)College of Computer and Information Engineering, Tianjin Normal University, 
Tianjin, 300387, PR China. jianglifen@tjnu.edu.cn.
(3)Xinjiang Port Economic Development and Management Research Center, Yili 
Normal University, Yining, 835000, PR China. jianglifen@tjnu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pain Medicine, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
100029, PR China.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, China-Japan Friendship 
Hospital, Beijing, 100029, PR China.
(#)Contributed equally

Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its precursor, mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI), is critical for effective prevention and treatment. 
Computer-aided diagnosis using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a 
cost-effective and objective approach. However, existing methods often segment 
3D MRI images into 2D slices, leading to spatial information loss and reduced 
diagnostic accuracy. To overcome this limitation, we propose TA-SSM Net, a deep 
learning model that leverages tri-directional attention and structured 
state-space model (SSM) for improved MRI-based diagnosis of AD and MCI. The 
tri-directional attention mechanism captures spatial and contextual information 
from forward, backward, and vertical directions in 3D MRI images, enabling 
effective feature fusion. Additionally, gradient checkpointing is applied within 
the SSM to enhance processing efficiency, allowing the model to handle 
whole-brain scans while preserving spatial correlations. To evaluate our method, 
we construct a dataset from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI), consisting of 300 AD patients, 400 MCI patients, and 400 normal 
controls. TA-SSM Net achieved an accuracy of 90.24% for MCI detection and 95.83% 
for AD detection. The results demonstrate that our approach not only improves 
classification accuracy but also enhances processing efficiency and maintains 
spatial correlations, offering a promising solution for the diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Publisher: Not applicable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12880-025-01836-5
PMCID: PMC12315388
PMID: 40745641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: The case data included in this study were all from the public 
dataset available on the ADNI official website ( 
https://adni.loni.usc.edu/data-samples/adni-data/#AccessData ), and ethical 
review information regarding ADNI data is available on the website. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


80. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 31;15(1):27981. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-94861-x.

Uncovering active ingredients and mechanisms of Pholiota adiposa in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease based on network pharmacology and 
bioinformatics.

Xiaoying M(1), Zhiming H(2), Mingwen S(1), Hong W(1), Tao Y(1), Jun X(1), Na 
G(3).

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Edible Fungi, Liaoning Academy of Agricultural Sciences, No. 
84 Dongling Road, Shenhe District, Shenyang, 110161, China.
(2)Information Center, Guidaojiaotong Polytechnic Institute, Shenyang, 110161, 
China.
(3)The Institute of Edible Fungi, Liaoning Academy of Agricultural Sciences, No. 
84 Dongling Road, Shenhe District, Shenyang, 110161, China. doll52133@163.com.

Pholiota adiposa is recognized for its health benefits, particularly in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its molecular mechanism remains elusive. Our study 
employs network pharmacology and machine learning to uncover its therapeutic 
potential. We constructed a network of AD-relevant target proteins using 
databases like TCMSP, CTD, and GeneCards, and performed gene enrichment and 
functional analysis with DAVID, GO, and KEGG via Hiplot. Targets were identified 
through Cytoscape's degree analysis and the Aging Atlas database for 
aging-related genes. Clinical targets were confirmed with GEO, and molecular 
docking was executed using AutoDock Vina. LASSO regression and random forest 
algorithms were applied for target model selection, and molecular dynamics 
simulations were run with Gromacs2022.3. Our findings suggest Pholiota adiposa 
modulates key proteins involved in AD, including STAT3, PRKCA, NF-κB1, and CDK1, 
potentially inhibiting protein phosphorylation and influencing neuronal membrane 
synthesis and RNA polymerase II activity. KEGG analysis revealed its impact on 
cancer pathways, indicating a multifaceted role. High-degree targets like STAT3 
and NF-κB1 were identified as effective, with TERT showing a significant role in 
aging. Machine learning confirmed the diagnostic importance of STAT3 and NFKB1 
in AD. Molecular docking highlighted the affinity of Pholiota adiposa for these 
targets, with carnosol, carnosic acid, and clovane diol as key components. 
Carnosol, in particular, induced a conformational change in STAT3, enhancing its 
efficacy. Pholiota adiposa shows promise as a therapeutic agent in AD treatment 
by modulating various pathways and signaling mechanisms, as demonstrated through 
network pharmacology and machine learning analyses. This study underscores its 
potential in managing neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. Institute of Edible Fungi, Liaoning Academy of Agricultural Sciences.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-94861-x
PMCID: PMC12314080
PMID: 40745201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


81. Am J Chin Med. 2025;53(6):1641-1683. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X25500624. Epub
2025  Aug 1.

Application of Traditional Chinese Medicine in Alzheimer's Disease Treatment: A 
Focus on the Wnt/[Formula: see text]-Catenin Pathway.

Ying C(1)(2), He Y(1)(2), Guo Y(1), Fan F(1), Wang B(1)(2), Gao J(1)(2), Li 
Y(1)(2), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Encephalopathy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Henan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)Department of the First Clinical Medical School, Henan University of Chinese 
Medicine, Zhengzhou, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
characterized by cognitive decline. Its etiology and pathogenesis are complex 
and multifactorial, with neurotoxicity induced by the abnormal aggregation of 
amyloid-beta (A[Formula: see text]) protein widely recognized as a central 
pathological hallmark. Current pharmacological treatments provide only limited 
symptomatic relief and are often associated with dose-dependent adverse effects. 
In contrast, Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has garnered growing attention 
due to its distinctive therapeutic profile, and in particular, its multi-target 
and multi-pathway synergistic mechanisms. The Wnt/[Formula: see text]-catenin 
signaling pathway plays a crucial role in intracellular signal transduction and 
is closely associated with several key pathological processes involved in AD. 
This review provides a comprehensive analysis of the molecular interplay between 
the Wnt/[Formula: see text]-catenin signaling pathway and the pathogenesis of 
AD, as well as a specific focus on how natural compounds, herbal monomers, and 
classical TCM formulations modulate this pathway. Accumulating evidence suggests 
that TCM exerts neuroprotective effects by regulating Wnt/[Formula: see 
text]-catenin signaling to thereby suppress A[Formula: see text] deposition, 
preserve synaptic structure and tissue homeostasis, modulate cell proliferation 
and apoptosis, and maintain metabolic and redox homeostasis. Additionally, the 
review discusses key challenges, such as improving blood-brain barrier 
permeability and enhancing bioavailability, and outlines future directions 
involving advanced delivery systems and optimized administration routes. These 
insights provide a robust scientific foundation for the development of 
Wnt/[Formula: see text]-catenin-targeted therapies and highlight the potential 
of TCM in the clinical treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X25500624
PMID: 40744715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Am J Clin Nutr. 2025 Oct;122(4):923-931. doi: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2025.07.020.
Epub  2025 Jul 30.

Dietary patterns and risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias across 5 
racial and ethnic groups in the Multiethnic Cohort Study.

Park SY(1), Setiawan VW(2), Crimmins EM(3), White LR(4), Haiman CA(2), Wilkens 
LR(5), Le Marchand L(5), Lim U(5).

Author information:
(1)Population Sciences in the Pacific Program, University of Hawaii Cancer 
Center, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, United States. Electronic 
address: spark@cc.hawaii.edu.
(2)Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of Medicine 
and Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, United States.
(3)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, Andrus Gerontology Center, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(4)Pacific Health Research and Education Institute, Honolulu, HI, United States.
(5)Population Sciences in the Pacific Program, University of Hawaii Cancer 
Center, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, United States.

BACKGROUND: Healthier dietary patterns have been linked to a lower risk of 
dementia, but data from diverse racial and ethnic populations are limited, 
particularly to support dietary improvement in older adults.
OBJECTIVES: We examined dietary patterns in relation to late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementia (ADRD) risk across 5 racial and ethnic groups in 
the Multiethnic Cohort Study.
METHODS: Participants were scored for 4 predefined dietary pattern indices based 
on their food frequency questionnaire responses at baseline (45-75 y) and at a 
10-y follow-up: the alternate Mediterranean diet (aMED), the Dietary Approaches 
to Stop Hypertension (DASH), the Healthy Eating Index-2015 (HEI-2015), and the 
Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet. 
Associations between dietary patterns and ADRD were examined using Cox 
proportional hazards models to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Among 92,849 participants with 21,478 cases, higher baseline scores of 
the 4 dietary patterns were associated with 4%‒9% lower ADRD risk (for aMED, HR 
0.91, 95% CI: 0.87, 0.95; for DASH, HR 0.96, 95% CI: 0.92, 1.01; for HEI-2015, 
HR 0.94, 95% CI: 0.90, 0.98; for MIND, HR 0.91, 95% CI: 0.87, 0.96) over the 
follow-up, with stronger associations observed in African American, Latino, and 
White participants than in Japanese American and Native Hawaiian participants. 
Dietary improvement over 10 y was associated with 11%‒25% lower risk across the 
4 indices in a subset of 45,065 participants with 8360 cases, with similar 
racial and ethnic differences as observed for baseline diet, but consistently 
for younger (<60 y at baseline) and older age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Healthy dietary patterns in mid- to late-life and improvement in 
older age were associated with a reduced risk of ADRD in a diverse population. 
The racial and ethnic heterogeneity in the relationships observed warrants 
further study.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2025.07.020
PMCID: PMC12396844
PMID: 40744415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors report no 
conflicts of interest.


83. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Oct 15;1005:178003. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178003. 
Epub 2025 Jul 29.

Natural bioactive compounds as modulators of autophagy: A herbal approach to the 
management of neurodegenerative diseases.

Nelson VK(1), Begum MY(2), Suryadevara PR(3), Madhuri Kallam SD(4), Panda SP(5), 
Bodapati A(6), Sanga V(7), Bishoyi AK(8), Ballal S(9), Monsi M(10), Walia C(11), 
Prasad GVS(12), Abomughaid MM(13), Shukla S(14), Chauhan P(15), Jha NK(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Mahathi College of Pharmacy, 
Madanapalle, India. Electronic address: vinod.kumar457@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid University, 
Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: ybajen@kku.edu.sa.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Lincoln University College, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia. 
Electronic address: Punnas999@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vignan's Foundation for Science, 
Technology & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur, Vadlamudi, Andhra 
Pradesh 522213, India. Electronic address: divya.kallam25@gmail.com.
(5)Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh 
281406, India. Electronic address: sivaprasad.panda@gla.ac.in.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vignan's Foundation for Science, 
Technology & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur, Vadlamudi, Andhra 
Pradesh 522213, India. Electronic address: anoop.bodapati@gmail.com.
(7)Raghavendra Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Anantapur, 
India. Electronic address: sangavaishnavi12@gmail.com.
(8)Marwadi University Research Centre, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Science Marwadi University, Rajkot-360003, Gujrat, India. Electronic address: 
ashokkumar.bishoyi@marwadieducation.edu.in.
(9)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Electronic address: 
b.suhas@jainuniversity.ac.in.
(10)Department of Pharmacy Practice, NIMS Institute of Pharmacy, NIMS 
University, Jaipur, Rajasthan-302131, India. Electronic address: 
mekha.monsi1@nimsuniversity.org.
(11)Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of Colleges-Jhanjeri, 
Mohali-140307, Punjab, India. Electronic address: 
mr2408.research@cgcjhanjeri.in.
(12)Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities, Raghu Engineering College, 
Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh-531162, India. Electronic address: 
sivaprasad.gv@raghuenggcollege.in.
(13)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, University of Bisha, Bisha 61922, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
moslehali@ub.edu.sa.
(14)School of Pharmacy, Sharda University, Greater Noida, India. Electronic 
address: sandeep.shukla@sharda.ac.in.
(15)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Maharshi Dayanad University, Rohtak, 
Haryana, 124001, India. Electronic address: payal.rs.pharma@mdurohtak.ac.in.
(16)Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, School of Biosciences and 
Technology (SBT), Galgotias University, Greater Noida, India; Department of 
Biotechnology & Bioengineering, School of Biosciences & Technology, Galgotias 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 203201, India. Electronic address: 
nirajkumarjha2011@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Polyglutamine (polyQ), Huntington's disease (HD), and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) disease are a significant health concern that affects 
millions of people every year worldwide. The main pathological hallmark of 
various NDs is the formation of misfolded protein aggregation and accumulation 
of inclusion bodies. These protein aggregates are mainly responsible for 
producing toxic effects and initiating neuronal cell death, ultimately promoting 
various NDs. On the other hand, the patients suffering from these kinds of 
diseases live in impaired conditions, imposing a substantial financial burden on 
the family. However, the current treatment strategies can only offer temporary 
relief from the disease symptoms and can't reverse the disease completely. 
Hence, there is an urgent need for specific and novel drug treatment that can 
significantly eradicate NDs. Ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy are 
the two essential intracellular defensive mechanisms that are involved in 
clearing the protein aggregates, pathogens, and damaged organelles from the 
cytoplasm and maintaining protein homeostasis. Nevertheless, UPS is inefficient 
in removing some kinds of organelles and aggregating-prone proteins, 
specifically in neuronal and glial cells. Under this kind of circumstance, the 
autophagy mechanism plays a vital role in eliminating the accumulated protein 
aggregates and other toxic elements from the cytoplasm of the neuronal cells 
that initiate oxidative stress. However, in NDs, the autophagy function is 
impaired, and the protein aggregates can't be eliminated effectively. Hence, 
forced up-regulation of autophagy function by applying various external agents 
could be a potential therapeutic strategy to control NDs like AD, PD, HD, and 
ALS. In this review, we focused on different kinds of plant-derived compounds 
that induce autophagy. We also discussed the role of these plant-derived 
autophagy modulators in various NDs. In this way, the current review will be a 
standalone reference to the researchers working in this area.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178003
PMID: 40744389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There is no 
conflict of interest to be declared.


84. Int J Med Mushrooms. 2025;27(9):85-92. doi:
10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059137.

In Silico Investigation of Ganoderic Acid A Targeting Amyloid-Beta and Tau 
Protein Aggregation in Alzheimer's Disease.

Ali A(1), Ganeshpurkar A(2), Ganeshpurkar A(3), Dubey N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, Taif University, Taif, 
Saudi Arabia.
(2)Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharti Vidyapeeth Deemed University, Pune, India.
(3)Drug Discovery Laboratory, Shri Ram Institute of Technology-Pharmacy, 
Jabalpur, M.P., India.
(4)Shri Ram Institute of Technology-Pharmacy, Jabalpur, M.P., India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a significant challenge in neurodegenerative 
disorders, characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
tau protein tangles in the brain. Current treatments provide symptomatic relief 
but do not halt disease progression. ganoderic acid A, derived from Ganoderma 
lucidum, has shown to act as a dual inhibitor of Aβ and tau protein aggregation 
through in vitro and animal model studies. This study aims to explore the 
therapeutic potential of ganoderic acid A using in silico methods to predict its 
binding affinity and mode of interaction with Aβ and tau proteins. Analysis 
included molecular docking simulations using computational models to evaluate 
the binding of ganoderic acid A to Aβ and tau proteins. Various tools were 
employed to predict the binding energy, interaction sites (Autodock), and MD 
(CABSflex 2.0) of these complexes. Ganoderic acid A demonstrated favorable 
binding energies and interactions with both Aβ and tau proteins. The compound 
exhibited potential dual inhibition capabilities by forming stable complexes 
with critical residues involved in Aβ aggregation and tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation. The findings suggest that ganoderic acid A holds promise 
as a dual inhibitor of Aβ and tau protein aggregation in AD. By targeting these 
key pathological processes, ganoderic acid A may offer therapeutic benefits in 
halting or slowing disease progression. Confirming these predictions and 
advancing ganoderic acid A as a possible AD treatment will require additional 
experimental validation, including in vitro and in vivo research.

DOI: 10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2025059137
PMID: 40743720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Asian J Psychiatr. 2025 Sep;111:104632. doi: 10.1016/j.ajp.2025.104632. Epub 
2025 Jul 23.

Early diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease using 
multimodal feature-based deep learning models in a Chinese elderly population.

Wang C(1), Wang Z(2), Herrero MT(3), Xu T(4), Chu F(4), Zeng H(5), Tao M(6).

Author information:
(1)The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, China; Affiliated Mental Health Center & Hangzhou Seventh People's 
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)School of Computer Science and Technology, Hangzhou Dianzi University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(3)Clinical & Experimental Neuroscience (NiCE), Biomedical Research Institute of 
Murcia (IMIB), Institute for Aging Research (IUIE), UniWell, Campus Mare 
Nostrum, School of Medicine, University of Murcia, Murcia, Spain.
(4)The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(5)School of Computer Science and Technology, Hangzhou Dianzi University, 
Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: jivon@hdu.edu.cn.
(6)The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: taoming@zcmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are 
progressive neurodegenerative disorders with no effective treatments currently, 
underscoring the urgent need for early diagnosis. Electroencephalography and 
event-related potentials (ERP) provide noninvasive, cost-effective methods with 
high temporal resolution for detecting cognitive decline, while traditional 
Chinese medicine (TCM) features such as body constitutions have been identified 
as risk factors for MCI. Recent developments in artificial intelligence (AI) 
especially deep learning architectures have further improved the diagnostic 
accuracies of AD and MCI. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of deep 
learning models based on fused ERP and TCM features in the cross-subject 
classification of cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Visual oddball ERP tasks under Neutral, Happiness, or Sadness stimulus 
were conducted among 30 healthy controls (HC, 12 males and 18 females), 30 MCI 
(10 males and 20 females), and 30 AD (10 males and 20 females) patients. Deep 
learning models, including EEGNet, Convolutional Neural Network - Long 
Short-Term Memory, Graph Convolutional Network, (GCN), and multi-scale feature 
reconstruction GCN, were employed to extract differential entropy features from 
ERP data, and multilayer perceptron was utilized to extract features from TCM 
questionnaires. After feature fusion, 10-fold cross-subject binary (HC vs. 
MCI+AD; MCI vs. AD) and ternary (HC, MCI, AD) classification tasks were 
performed subsequently.
RESULTS: GCN significantly outperformed other models in all three cross-subject 
classification tasks. In binary classification tasks distinguishing HC from MCI 
and AD, GCN achieved accuracies of 90.17 ± 5.58 %, 86.73 ± 2.34 %, and 
84.73 ± 4.28 % under Neutral, Happiness, and Sadness, respectively. Similarly, 
in ternary classification of HC, MCI, and AD, GCN reached the highest accuracy 
of 72.67 ± 1.89 % under Neutral stimulus.
CONCLUSIONS: Leveraging fused ERP and TCM features, deep learning models have 
demonstrated robust cross-subject efficacy in the early diagnosis of cognitive 
decline. Particularly in distinguishing HC from MCI and AD, the performance of 
GCN was comparable to that of hematological biomarkers. Our study, therefore, 
highlights a reliable and effective AI-driven methodology for the early 
diagnosis of cognitive impairment in clinical settings.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2025.104632
PMID: 40743680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Regarding 
research work described in the paper, each one of our co-authors, CW, ZW, MTH, 
TX, FC, HZ, and MT, declares that there is no conflict of interest, and conforms 
to the Helsinki Declaration concerning human rights and informed consent, and 
follows correct procedures concerning treatment of humans in research.


86. J Trauma Nurs. 2025 Sep-Oct 01;32(5):288-297. doi:
10.1097/JTN.0000000000000873.  Epub 2025 Sep 5.

Experiences of Unpaid Caregivers for Persons With Memory Impairment Navigating 
Perioperative Care.

Kovaleva M(1)(2), Baumberger BF(1)(2), Maiga A(1)(2), Dietrich MS(1)(2), 
Lauderdale J(1)(2), Balas MC(1)(2), Maxwell C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Author Affiliations : College of Nursing, University of Nebraska Medical 
Center (UNMC), Center for Nursing Science, Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, 
Nebraska. (Dr Kovaleva, Baumberger); School of Medicine, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee. (Drs Maiga, 
Lauderdale); Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University School of 
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee, Vanderbilt University School of Nursing, 
Nashville, Tennessee. (Dr. Dietrich); College of Nursing, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha Nebraska. (Dr. Balas).
(2)College of Nursing, University of Utah, Salt Lake, Utah. (Dr. Maxwell).

BACKGROUND: As the aging population grows, individuals with cognitive impairment 
face increased challenges and a higher risk of poor outcomes. Although unpaid 
caregivers provide most of their care and help navigate hospitalizations and 
surgeries, their experiences in perioperative settings remain poorly understood.
OBJECTIVE: This study explores the experiences of unpaid caregivers of 
individuals with memory impairment in the perioperative period.
METHODS: This study used a qualitative descriptive approach to explore 
caregivers' experiences with perioperative care for individuals with cognitive 
impairment. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with purposefully sampled 
unpaid caregivers of individuals who had undergone a surgery within the past 6 
months at a Southeastern U.S. trauma center (February-April 2021). Conventional 
content analysis was used to code transcripts and identify themes.
RESULTS: Eight caregivers participated in semi-structured interviews. Caregivers 
reported being unprepared for postoperative complications, including delirium, 
cognitive changes, and functional decline. Communication deficits were 
prominent, with caregivers receiving inadequate information about surgical 
outcomes and postoperative expectations. Staff demonstrated knowledge gaps 
regarding dementia care, and 1 instance of verbal abuse toward a patient was 
reported. Five themes emerged: care recipients' perioperative experiences, 
caregivers' experiences, healthcare strengths and deficiencies, and improvement 
recommendations.
CONCLUSION: Caregivers of persons with cognitive impairment face significant 
challenges during the perioperative period, often unprepared for postoperative 
complications and lacking adequate communication from healthcare teams. Findings 
suggest targeted interventions, including preoperative caregiver education about 
delirium, enhanced communication protocols, and comprehensive hospital staff 
training on dementia care, could improve outcomes for this growing population 
requiring surgical intervention.

Copyright © 2025 Society of Trauma Nurses.

DOI: 10.1097/JTN.0000000000000873
PMID: 40743472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 31;45(1):76. doi: 10.1007/s10571-025-01587-5.

A GWAS Meta-meta-analysis and In-depth Silico Pharmacogenomic Investigations in 
Identification of APOE and Other Genes Associated with Pain, Anti-inflammatory, 
and Immunomodulating Agents in Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) Derived from 14.91 M 
Subjects.

Sharafshah A(1)(2), Motovali-Bashi M(3), Blum K(4), Lewandrowski KU(5)(6)(7), 
Gold MS(8), Keshavarz P(2), Thanos PK(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology and 
Microbiology, Faculty of Biological Science and Technology, University of 
Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, School of Medicine, Guilan University 
of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(3)Division of Genetics, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology and 
Microbiology, Faculty of Biological Science and Technology, University of 
Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. mbashi@sci.ui.ac.ir.
(4)Division of Addiction Research & Education, Center for Sports, Exercise & 
Mental Health, Western University, Health Sciences, Pomona, CA, USA. 
drd2gene@gmail.com.
(5)Division of Personalized Pain Medicine & Education, Center for Advanced Spine 
Care of Southern Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(6)Department of Orthopaedics, Fundación Universitaria Sanitas, Bogotá, DC, 
Colombia.
(7)Department of Orthopaedics, Hospital Universitário Gaffre e Guinle, 
Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA. 
mgold9876@wustl.edu.
(9)Behavioral Neuropharmacology and Neuroimaging Laboratory on Addictions, 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Jacobs School of Medicine and 
Biosciences, Clinical Research Institute on Addictions, State University of New 
York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA. thanos@buffalo.edu.

This study aimed to integrate genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with 
pharmacogenomics data to develop personalized pain and inflammatory 
therapeutics. Despite recent developments in the clinical utilities of 
pharmacogenomics, it needs more investigations for uncovering the complicated 
mechanisms of drugs from a genetic standpoint. The research addresses the 
increasing misuse of opioids during recovery, emphasizing personalized 
interventions for opioid use disorder (OUD). Key pain-related pathways were 
analyzed to uncover their interactions. Five GWAS traits, including pain, 
inflammatory biomarkers, immune system abnormalities, and opioid-related traits, 
were examined. Candidate genes extracted from GWAS datasets were refined through 
in silico analyses, including protein-protein interactions (PPIs), TF-miRNA 
coregulatory interactions, enrichment analysis (EA), and clustering enrichment 
analysis (CEA). A network of 50 highly connected genes was identified, with APOE 
emerging as a top candidate due to its role in cholesterol metabolism and 
opioid-induced lipid effects. Pharmacogenomics analysis highlighted significant 
gene annotations, including OPRM1, DRD2, APOE, GRIN2B, and GPR98, linking them 
to opioid dependence, neurological disorders, and lipid traits. Protein 
interaction analyses further validated these connections, with implications for 
epigenetic repair. Our findings reveal a strong association between APOE, opioid 
use, and Alzheimer's disease, suggesting potential for novel recovery 
strategies. Combining HDL-boosting drugs with pro-dopaminergic regulators like 
KB220 may help prevent relapse. This study underscores the importance of 
integrating genetic and pharmacogenomic data to advance personalized therapies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-025-01587-5
PMCID: PMC12314298
PMID: 40742457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: Dr. Kenneth 
Blum reports royalties from and discloses many pending USA and foreign patents 
on GARS and KB220 variants licensed to Synaptamine and Victory Nutrition 
International. The authors report no other conflicts of interest in this work. 
Ethical Approval: Not applicable. Consent to Participate: Not applicable.


88. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05242-4. Online ahead of 
print.

Araloside A Induces Raf/MEK/ERK-Dependent Autophagy to Mitigate Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's Pathology in Cellular and C. elegans Models.

Chen X(#)(1)(2), Zhou XY(#)(1)(2), Lan C(#)(1), Fu HJ(1)(2), Li ZC(1), Chen 
MY(3), Wen YP(3), Yu L(1), Qin DL(1), Wu AG(4), Wu JM(5), Zhou XG(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Sichuan Key Medical Laboratory of New Drug Discovery and Drugability 
Evaluation, Luzhou Key Laboratory of Activity Screening and Druggability 
Evaluation for Chinese Materia Medica, School of Pharmacy, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan 646000, State Key Laboratory of Crop Gene 
Exploration and Utilization in Southwest China, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Luzhou, Chengdu 611130, Sichuan, China.
(2)Central Nervous System Drug Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Luzhou, 
Sichuan, 646000, China.
(3)College of Food and Bioengineering, Chengdu University, Chengdu, Sichuan 
610106, China.
(4)Sichuan Key Medical Laboratory of New Drug Discovery and Drugability 
Evaluation, Luzhou Key Laboratory of Activity Screening and Druggability 
Evaluation for Chinese Materia Medica, School of Pharmacy, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan 646000, State Key Laboratory of Crop Gene 
Exploration and Utilization in Southwest China, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Luzhou, Chengdu 611130, Sichuan, China. wuanguo@swmu.edu.cn.
(5)Sichuan Key Medical Laboratory of New Drug Discovery and Drugability 
Evaluation, Luzhou Key Laboratory of Activity Screening and Druggability 
Evaluation for Chinese Materia Medica, School of Pharmacy, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan 646000, State Key Laboratory of Crop Gene 
Exploration and Utilization in Southwest China, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Luzhou, Chengdu 611130, Sichuan, China. jianmingwu@swmu.edu.cn.
(6)Sichuan Key Medical Laboratory of New Drug Discovery and Drugability 
Evaluation, Luzhou Key Laboratory of Activity Screening and Druggability 
Evaluation for Chinese Materia Medica, School of Pharmacy, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan 646000, State Key Laboratory of Crop Gene 
Exploration and Utilization in Southwest China, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Luzhou, Chengdu 611130, Sichuan, China. zxg@swmu.edu.cn.
(7)Central Nervous System Drug Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Luzhou, 
Sichuan, 646000, China. zxg@swmu.edu.cn.
(8)Bazhong product quality inspection and Testing Center, Bazhong, Sichuan 
636600, China. zxg@swmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by 
pathological protein aggregation and oxidative stress, leading to progressive 
neurodegeneration. Enhancing autophagy, the primary intracellular pathway for 
clearing misfolded proteins, represents a promising therapeutic strategy. In 
this study, we identify Araloside A (ARA), a triterpenoid saponin derived from 
Aralia elata, as a potent autophagy inducer that alleviates AD- and PD-related 
pathology. In neuronal cell models, ARA promotes autophagosome formation, 
increases LC3-II and Beclin-1 levels, and decreases P62, indicating enhanced 
autophagic activity. Mechanistic investigations reveal that ARA directly binds 
to Raf, MEK, and ERK proteins and activates autophagy in a Raf/MEK/ERK-dependent 
manner. This activation facilitates the clearance of APP, total Tau, 
phosphorylated Tau, and α-synuclein, thereby reducing cytotoxicity. Furthermore, 
in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans models of AD and PD, ARA treatment 
alleviates protein aggregation and behavioral deficits via ERK-dependent 
autophagy. Together, these findings identify ARA as a natural compound that 
enhances autophagic clearance of neurotoxic aggregates via Raf/MEK/ERK pathway 
activation, offering promising therapeutic insights for neurodegenerative 
proteinopathies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05242-4
PMID: 40742404

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


89. J Clin Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.1002/jcph.70086. Online ahead of
print.

Pharmacokinetics and Bioavailability of a Novel Rivastigmine Nasal Spray 
Compared to Rivastigmine Oral Capsule in Healthy Men.

Morgan TM(1), Snyder B(2).

Author information:
(1)Lachesis Biosciences Ltd., Breakwater, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Nucleus Network, Department of General Medicine, Alfred Health, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

To compare the pharmacokinetics, bioavailability, tolerability, and safety of a 
novel 4 mg rivastigmine nasal spray to 3 mg rivastigmine oral capsule, a 
single-dose, open-label, randomized, crossover study was conducted in 16 fasted 
healthy young men (18 to 55 years). Mean (SD) rivastigmine Cmax was 8.39 (6.8) 
and 13.77 (10.7) ng/mL for oral and nasal, respectively. Rivastigmine AUC0-inf 
was 19.6 (14.9) and 40.6 (24.4) ng h/mL for oral and nasal, respectively. The 
ratio of LS means (nasal test / oral reference; 90% C.I.) for rivastigmine Cmax 
was 185.83% (134.22, 257.28) and for rivastigmine AUC0-inf was 257.35% (197.26, 
335.73). Rivastigmine tmax for nasal (0.7 h) was significantly lower than oral 
(1.2 h, P < .05), however, NAP226-90 tmax for nasal (1.9 h) and oral (1.8 h) 
were similar. NAP226-90 Cmax was 3.93 (1.1) and 3.01 (0.8) ng/mL for oral and 
nasal, respectively. NAP226-90 AUC0-inf was 22.9 (5.3) and 23.2 (5.1) ng h/mL 
for oral and nasal, respectively. Median NAP226-90 to rivastigmine AUC0-inf 
ratio for nasal (0.55) was significantly lower than oral (1.38, P < .05) because 
nasal bypassed first-pass metabolism. Both single-dose treatments were safe and 
well tolerated. Nasal and throat irritation were mostly perceived as mild and 
transient following nasal administration. The 4 mg rivastigmine nasal spray had 
1.5- and 2.0-fold higher dose normalized rivastigmine Cmax and AUC0-inf, 
respectively, and 2.5-fold lower NAP226-90 to rivastigmine AUC0-inf ratio 
compared to 3 mg oral capsule. This nasal spray has good potential to improve 
the local and gastrointestinal tolerability of rivastigmine treatment in 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease dementia patients.

© 2025, The American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/jcph.70086
PMID: 40742252


90. J Cardiovasc Aging. 2025 Jun;5(2):13. doi: 10.20517/jca.2025.02. Epub 2025
Jun  29.

Impact of Myocardial Infarction on Cerebral Homeostasis: Exploring the 
Protective Role of Estrogen.

El-Samadi L(1)(2), Zahreddine R(1)(2), Ziade JA(1)(2), El Ghawi A(1)(2), Amin 
G(1)(2)(3), Booz GW(3), Zouein FA(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, American University of Beirut 
Faculty of Medicine, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)The Cardiovascular, Renal, and Metabolic Diseases Research Center of 
Excellence, American University of Beirut Medical Center, Riad El-Solh, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Medicine, University of 
Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS, USA.

Myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as a heart attack, results from the 
rupture of atherosclerotic plaques in coronary arteries, which triggers a series 
of pathological events including cardiomyocyte death, thrombus formation, and 
systemic inflammation. These pathological events lead to significant structural 
and functional changes in the heart, potentially precipitating heart failure. 
The ramifications of MI extend beyond cardiac dysfunction and impact cerebral 
health. Accordingly, this review examines the cerebral implications of MI, 
focusing on how systemic inflammation and reduced cardiac output post-MI affect 
cerebral blood flow (CBF) and brain function. MI-induced changes in cardiac 
output can lead to cerebral hypoperfusion, while neuroinflammation and increased 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability contribute to cognitive decline and 
neuronal damage, with potential links to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, 
the review explores the role of estrogen in modulating cardiovascular and 
cerebral health, particularly in post-menopausal women who exhibit distinct 
cardiovascular risk profiles. Estrogen protects the heart by regulating local 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems (RAAS) and has significant impacts on 
brain function. Declining estrogen levels during menopause exacerbate 
neuroinflammation and cognitive deficits, highlighting the importance of 
estrogen in maintaining cerebrovascular function. Experimental studies on 
estrogen replacement therapies, including 17β-estradiol and selective estrogen 
receptor modulators (SERMs), show potential in mitigating these detrimental 
effects, enhancing neurogenesis, and improving cognitive outcomes. Estrogen 
therapy is crucial in preventing cognitive decline and reducing amyloid plaque 
formation in Alzheimer's models. This review underscores the potential benefits 
of estrogen therapy in promoting brain recovery post-MI and improving functional 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.20517/jca.2025.02
PMCID: PMC12309790
PMID: 40741133

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest All authors declared that 
there are no conflicts of interest


91. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jul 16;17:1623050. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1623050.  eCollection 2025.

Elucidating molecular pathogenesis and developing targeted therapeutic 
interventions for cerebrovascular endothelial cell-mediated vascular dementia.

Yang Y(1), Chen H(1), Liu Q(2), Niu Y(3), Mao C(3), Wang R(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science and Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education 
in Protection and Utilization of Medicinal Resources of Liupanshan Area, Ningxia 
Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Tropical Medicine Innovation and Translational 
of Hainan and Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan 
Medical University, Haikou, Hainan, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education in Modernization of Minority 
Medicine, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.

Vascular dementia (VaD) ranks as the second most prevalent subtype of dementia, 
surpassed only by Alzheimer's disease (AD). The maintenance of neurological 
function and cerebral homeostasis critically depends on precisely regulated 
blood flow within the intricately organized cerebrovascular network. Disruptions 
in cerebral hemodynamics may impair neurovascular homeostasis, thereby inducing 
pathophysiological cascades characterized by oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammation, and neuronal degeneration. Emerging evidence identifies 
cerebrovascular dysregulation and impaired neurovascular coupling (NVC) as 
primary pathogenic mechanisms underlying VaD, emphasizing the necessity to 
elucidate their complex interplay. Cerebrovascular endothelial cells exhibit 
remarkable heterogeneity, serving dual roles as both architectural components of 
the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and functional regulators of NVC. Furthermore, 
pericytes residing abluminal on capillary endothelia demonstrate critical 
involvement in hemodynamic modulation through contractile regulation of 
microvascular tone, while concurrently maintaining BBB integrity through dynamic 
paracrine signaling. This study examines cerebrovascular endothelial-neuronal 
interactions within the neurovascular unit (NVU) framework, analyzing their 
bidirectional regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic potential in cognitive 
dysfunction remediation. The pathophysiological progression of VaD manifests 
through multiple interdependent pathways, including cerebral hypoperfusion, 
oxidative stress cascades, neuroinflammatory responses, mitochondrial 
dysregulation, and electrolyte homeostasis perturbations. Through three 
interventional axes: (1) BBB fortification strategies; (2) cerebral hemodynamic 
optimization and NVC enhancement; (3) nanotherapeutic platforms integrating 
endothelial-specific molecular targets we systematically evaluate 
endothelial-centric therapeutic paradigms. This multi-modal approach proposes 
novel mechanistic insights and clinical translation frameworks for VaD 
management.

Copyright © 2025 Yang, Chen, Liu, Niu, Mao and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1623050
PMCID: PMC12307504
PMID: 40741047

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


92. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 16;16:1618623. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1618623. 
eCollection 2025.

Pharmacological mechanisms and potential clinical applications of 
Dihydromyricetin in neurological disorders.

Zhang Y(1), Zhang T(2), Zhao M(2), Li P(2), Liu T(2), Xie J(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Integration of Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Shandong 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Weifang Traditional Chinese Hospital, Weifang, 
China.

Neurological disorders (e.g., Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and 
stroke) have complex pathogenesis and affect a substantial proportion of the 
population; yet, available treatments have poor or limited efficacy, and the 
patients have a poor prognosis, with high morbidity and mortality. 
Dihydromyricetin (DHM), a flavonoid compound extracted from plants, has received 
widespread attention in recent years because of its diverse pharmacological 
effects. In vitro and in vivo studies have revealed its substantial antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties, making it a promising 
candidate for the treatment of central nervous system disorders through multiple 
mechanisms and pleiotropic effects. Therefore, there is an urgent need to 
develop novel therapeutic strategies. DHM is an attractive candidate for the 
management of neurological disorders, but there is a lack of a systematic 
summary of the knowledge status and gaps. Therefore, to address this challenge, 
we systematically reviewed the pharmacological mechanisms of DHM in central 
nervous system disorders and its potential applications in related conditions. 
We analyzed the therapeutic potential and current challenges of DHM to provide a 
reference for its development and application as a novel therapeutic agent. The 
review suggests that DHM possesses significant potential for the management of 
neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Zhang, Zhao, Li, Liu and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1618623
PMCID: PMC12308142
PMID: 40740995

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


93. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 16;16:1616939. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1616939. 
eCollection 2025.

The role of peripheral innate immune cells in Alzheimer's disease progression.

Cao Y(#)(1), Tang K(#)(2), Ma P(2), Zhang R(1), Yang Y(1), Li T(3), Zhang Y(4), 
Peng X(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Gansu University of 
Chinese Medicine, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Gansu University of Chinese 
Medicine, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, The No.2 people's hospital of Lanzhou, Lanzhou, 
Gansu, China.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Xiaogan City social welfare and medical 
rehabilitation center, Xiaogan, Hubei, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and chronic neuroinflammation. 
While microglia and astrocytes dominate CNS immune responses, emerging evidence 
implicates peripheral innate immune cells (PIICs)-including neutrophils, 
monocytes, dendritic cells, NK cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells 
(MDSCs)-as critical modulators of AD pathogenesis. This review synthesizes 
recent advances linking PIIC-related genetic polymorphisms to AD susceptibility 
and progression. We highlight how PIICs traffic into the brain via chemokine 
signaling, where they exhibit stage-specific effects: early recruitment may 
limit Aβ deposition via phagocytosis, whereas chronic infiltration exacerbates 
neuroinflammation and neuronal death. Paradoxically, some PIICs exert 
immunosuppressive effects that could be harnessed therapeutically. We further 
discuss preclinical strategies to modulate PIIC function, such as CCR2 
inhibition, neutrophil depletion, and MDSC adoptive transfer. By bridging 
peripheral and central immunity, this review unveils PIICs as promising targets 
for next-generation AD therapies, advocating for precision immunomodulation 
tailored to disease stages.

Copyright © 2025 Cao, Tang, Ma, Zhang, Yang, Li, Zhang and Peng.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1616939
PMCID: PMC12307171
PMID: 40740772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


94. ArXiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 22:arXiv:2507.16148v1.

Learning Patient-Specific Spatial Biomarker Dynamics via Operator Learning for 
Alzheimer's Disease Progression.

Wang J(1), Mao Y(2), Liu X(2), Hao W(1); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Penn State University, University Park, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Penn State University, University Park, 
PA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex, multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder 
with substantial heterogeneity in progression and treatment response. Despite 
recent therapeutic advances, predictive models capable of accurately forecasting 
individualized disease trajectories remain limited. Here, we present a machine 
learning-based operator learning framework for personalized modeling of AD 
progression, integrating longitudinal multimodal imaging, biomarker, and 
clinical data. Unlike conventional models with prespecified dynamics, our 
approach directly learns patient-specific disease operators governing the 
spatiotemporal evolution of amyloid, tau, and neurodegeneration biomarkers. 
Using Laplacian eigenfunction bases, we construct geometry-aware neural 
operators capable of capturing complex brain dynamics. Embedded within a digital 
twin paradigm, the framework enables individualized predictions, simulation of 
therapeutic interventions, and in silico clinical trials. Applied to AD clinical 
data, our method achieves high prediction accuracy exceeding 90% across multiple 
biomarkers, substantially outperforming existing approaches. This work offers a 
scalable, interpretable platform for precision modeling and personalized 
therapeutic optimization in neurodegenerative diseases.

PMCID: PMC12310122
PMID: 40740514


95. World J Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 19;15(7):106761. doi: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i7.106761.
 eCollection 2025 Jul 19.

Effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on electroencephalogram 
and memory function in patients with mild cognitive impairment.

Fu HX(1).

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Medicine Center, The First Hospital of Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan 030000, Shanxi Province, China. fuhaixia1993@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a high-risk precursor to 
Alzheimer's disease characterized by declining memory or other progressive 
cognitive functions without compromising daily living abilities.
AIM: To investigate the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(rTMS) in patients with MCI.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis involved 180 patients with MCI who were 
admitted to The First Hospital of Shanxi Medical University from January 2021 to 
June 2023. Participants were allocated into the research (n = 98, receiving 
rTMS) and control groups (n = 82, receiving sham stimulation). Memory tests, 
cognitive function assessments, event-related potential-P300 tests, and 
electroencephalogram (EEG) examinations were conducted pre-treatment and 
post-treatment. Further, memory quotient (MQ), cognitive function scores, and 
EEG grading results were compared, along with adverse reaction incidences.
RESULTS: Pre-treatment MQ scores, long-term and short-term memory, as well as 
immediate memory scores, demonstrated no notable differences between the groups. 
Post-treatment, the research group exhibited significant increases in MQ scores, 
long-term memory, and short-term memory compared to baseline (P < 0.05), with 
these improvements being statistically superior to those in the control group. 
However, immediate memory scores exhibited no significant change (P > 0.05). 
Further, the research group demonstrated statistically better post-treatment 
scores on the Revised Wechsler Memory Scale than the control group. Furthermore, 
post-treatment P300 latency and amplitude improved significantly in the research 
group, surpassing the control group. EEG grading in the research group improved, 
and the incidence of adverse reactions was significantly lower than in the 
control group.
CONCLUSION: Patients with MCI receiving rTMS therapy demonstrated improved 
memory and cognitive functions and EEG grading and exhibited high safety with 
fewer adverse reactions.

©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i7.106761
PMCID: PMC12305127
PMID: 40740460

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All the authors 
report no relevant conflicts of interest for this article.


96. Phytochem Anal. 2025 Jul 31. doi: 10.1002/pca.70009. Online ahead of print.

Attenuation of Tacrine Combined With Rosmarinic Acid.

Zheng M(1), Yang M(1), Li X(2), Tian L(1), Zhou S(2), Wang G(2), Gao W(1).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Key Laboratory for Modern Drug Delivery & High-Efficiency, School of 
Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Modernization Tasly 
Pharmaceutical Group Co, Ltd, Tianjin, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common forms of dementia 
among the elderly in the world. With the increase of human life expectancy, its 
incidence is also increasing year by year. Tacrine (TAC) is the first 
acetylcholine inhibitor approved for the treatment of AD. Although TAC has 
obvious anti-AD activity, it was eventually delisted due to acute liver injury 
caused by its strong hepatotoxicity. Rosmarinic acid (RA) has shown good 
activity in both neuroprotection and hepatoprotection.
PURPOSE AND STUDY DESIGN: In this study, the combination of RA and TAC was 
explored, and a high dose of d-galactose was used to build an AD mouse model, 
which was given at the same time for 4 weeks in order to alleviate TAC 
hepatotoxicity and enhance the intervention of AD in mice through RA. In 
particular, we pay attention to the key role of Aβ and microglia in the 
pathogenesis of AD, so we evaluate the ability of RA combined with TAC in 
alleviating chronic neuroinflammation induced by Aβ plaque in the brain of AD 
mice and enhancing the ability of microglia to clear Aβ plaque.
RESULTS: The results show that the combination of RA and TAC has the best 
intervention effect on AD compared with the single use of the two drugs, and it 
is basically positively correlated with RA dose. RA + TAC significantly improved 
body weight, organ index, and behavioral state of AD mice. Further analysis 
showed that RA + TAC enhanced the antioxidant level of hippocampus and serum of 
AD mice, alleviated the pathological damage of hippocampus, significantly 
improved cholinergic system, reduced the expression levels of AB plaque and 
neurotoxic Aβ1-41 and Aβ1-42 in the brain, and significantly increased the level 
of neuroprotective protein trigger receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 
(TREM2), which mediated the phagocytosis of microglia. More importantly, the 
combination therapy of RA and TAC decreased the expression of M1 microglia 
marker (ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 [Iba-1]), increased the 
expression of M2 microglia marker Arg-1, and promoted the release of 
anti-inflammatory compounds. In addition, RA + TAC also inhibited the mRNA 
expression of TLR4 and NF-κB related to neuroinflammation. In the aspect of 
liver function, RA reduced cell death mediated by Caspase-3 by regulating the 
expression of bcl-2/bax, alleviated TAC-induced liver injury in mice, and made 
the serum indexes of ALT, AST, ALP, TBIL, and γ-GT reflecting liver function 
closer to the normal range.
CONCLUSION: The combination of RA and TAC shows the potential to reduce the 
hepatotoxicity of TAC and is expected to enhance its therapeutic effect on AD.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.70009
PMID: 40740038


97. J Neurochem. 2025 Aug;169(8):e70176. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70176.

Alzheimer's Disease: Treatment Challenges for the Future.

Hardy J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, United 
Kingdom.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.

The approvals of the first anti-amyloid antibodies for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease have changed both the clinical and research landscape for 
the disease. These antibodies, lecanemab and donanemab, mark a turning point for 
our understanding of the disease pathogenesis and for the treatment of this 
prevalent disorder. This review discusses what they imply for disease 
pathogenesis and what is needed to progress from the current imperfect therapies 
toward safe and better, disease halting therapies. The research over the next 
period will involve drug development, largely aimed at reducing the side effects 
of the anti-amyloid therapies, biomarker and genetic research to try and 
identify patients earlier in the disease process, and neuropathological research 
in individuals who have received treatment to try and understand the 
pathological substrates of the continuing clinical decline in the disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70176
PMCID: PMC12311557
PMID: 40739944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have consulted for Eisai, Eli Lilly, and Roche 
in the last 3 years.


98. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Jul 30:1877718X251356512. doi:
10.1177/1877718X251356512.  Online ahead of print.

Progression to Parkinson's dementia is not modulated by genetic risk variants 
for Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease.

Parveen K(1)(2), Ross JA(3)(4), van der Wurp H(3)(4), Balzer-Geldsetzer M(5), 
Berg D(6), Deuschl G(6), Gasser T(7), Hilker-Roggendorf R(8), Kalbe E(9), 
Liepelt-Scarfone I(10)(11)(12), Mollenhauer B(13)(14), Riedel O(15), Röske 
S(10)(11), Schulz JB(16), Spottke A(10)(11), Storch A(17)(18), Trenkwalder 
C(13)(14), Kassubek J(19)(20), Witt K(21)(22)(23), Dodel R(3)(4), Wüllner 
U(10)(11), Ramirez A(1)(2)(11)(24)(25), Dalmasso MC(1)(26).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogenetics and Molecular Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry 
and Psychotherapy, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, 
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(2)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University Hospital 
Bonn, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Center for Translational and Behavioral 
Neuroscience, University Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(4)Therapy Research in Neurogeriatrics, Chair of Geriatric Medicine, University 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, Christian Albrechts University, Kiel, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain 
Research and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), University 
Tübingen, and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Tübingen, Germany.
(8)Department of Neurology, J.W. Goethe University, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.
(9)Medical Psychology, Neuropsychology, Gender Studies & Centre for 
Neuropsychological Diagnostics and Intervention (CeNDI), Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(10)Department of Parkinson, Sleep and Movement Disorders, Centre of Neurology, 
University Hospital Bonn and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(11)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(12)IB University of Applied Sciences for Health and Social Sciences, Stuttgart, 
Germany.
(13)Paracelsus-Elena Clinic, Centre of Parkinsonism and Movement Disorders, 
Kassel, Germany.
(14)Georg August University, Göttingen, Germany.
(15)Leibniz Institute for Prevention Research and Epidemiology, Bremen, Germany.
(16)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, 
Germany.
(17)Department of Neurology, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(18)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Rostock-Greifswald, 
Rostock, Germany.
(19)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(20)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Ulm, Germany.
(21)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Carl von 
Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(22)University Clinic of Neurology, Evangelical Hospital, Oldenburg, Germany.
(23)Center of Neurosensory Sciences, University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, 
Germany.
(24)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Disease (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(25)Department of Psychiatry & Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(26)Studies in Neuroscience and Complex Systems Unit-CONICET-HEC-UNAJ, Florencio 
Varela, Argentina.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is marked by motor symptoms and often accompanied by 
mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI), affecting up to 50% of patients and 
preceding PD dementia (PDD). Genetic factors may influence this progression, yet 
the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated genetic 
factors influencing the progression from PD-MCI to PDD using polygenic risk 
scores (PRS). A genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted using data 
from the LANDSCAPE study. Multivariable Cox regression, Kaplan-Meier survival 
analysis, and concordance statistics assessed the relationship between PRS and 
PDD progression. No significant association was found between PD PRS and the 
risk of developing PDD.

Plain Language Summary: This study aimed to understand whether specific genetic 
factors can help predict if people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in 
Parkinson's disease (PD) will go on to develop dementia, a condition known as 
Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD). Parkinson's disease is a progressive 
disorder that affects movement and can also lead to memory and thinking problems 
in many people. While some research has shown that certain genes are linked to 
Parkinson's disease itself, it's unclear if these same genetic factors affect 
the likelihood of developing dementia. To explore this, we used polygenic risk 
scores (PRS), which combine information from various genes to estimate a 
person's genetic risk for a disease. We analyzed data from people with 
Parkinson's disease and mild cognitive impairment, examining whether their 
genetic profiles could predict dementia progression over time. Statistical 
models were used to compare the genetic risk scores with actual dementia 
outcomes. Our findings showed no strong link between the genetic scores and the 
progression to dementia, suggesting that current genetic markers may not 
effectively predict this outcome in Parkinson's disease. These results highlight 
the need for more complex approaches that consider additional factors beyond 
genetics, including lifestyle or environmental influences. This research 
underscores that the development of dementia in Parkinson's disease may involve 
many factors and that genetic risk scores, as they are currently understood, may 
not be enough to predict who will develop dementia.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X251356512
PMID: 40739885


99. Eur J Med Res. 2025 Jul 30;30(1):690. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02937-1.

Targeting proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) to tackle 
central nervous system diseases: role as a promising approach.

Zheng X(1), Yuan W(2), Li L(1), Ma H(1), Zhu M(1), Li X(1), Feng X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Tsinghua Medicine, Tsinghua University, Litang Road 168#, 
Beijing, 102218, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Fuxing Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100038, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Tsinghua Medicine, Tsinghua University, Litang Road 168#, 
Beijing, 102218, China. fxha01071@btch.edu.cn.

Atherosclerosis-associated disease (ASD) represents a complex pathological 
condition, characterized by the formation of atherosclerotic plaques within the 
arterial walls, encompassing cholesterol depositions, which is primarily 
attributed to elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C). A 
log-linear association between the absolute magnitude of LDL-C exposure and ASD 
risk has been widely studied. High levels of LDL-C have been acknowledged as the 
predominant culprit. The previous research findings have demonstrated that PCSK9 
inhibitors (PCSK9i) can remarkably diminish the risk of ASD. The current 
research has primarily focused on the relevance of PCSK9 to the cardiovascular 
system and lipid metabolism; however, an increasing body of evidence shows that 
PCSK9 is pivotal in pathogenic processes in other organ systems. Yet, PCSK9's 
impact on the brain is complex and not fully clarified, although several recent 
studies emphasize a putative role of its impact on various neurodegenerative 
disorders. Among neurological disorders, not only stroke but neurogenesis, 
neural cell differentiation, central LDL receptor metabolism, neural cell 
apoptosis, neuroinflammation, alcohol use disorder (AUD), amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis(ALS), and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are related to PCSK9. PCSK9 
expression in brain is low but greatly upregulated in neurological disorders. 
Therefore, PCSK9 is a promising pathway for the treatment of central nervous 
diseases. This review comprehensively describes evidence from the previous 
research on the effects of PCSK9i on the central nervous system, with a focus on 
the clinical potential of PCSK9i. We anticipate that this review will generate 
data that will help biomedical researchers or clinical workers develop 
treatments for the neurological diseases based on PCSK9i.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02937-1
PMCID: PMC12309077
PMID: 40739673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


100. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Jul 30;25(1):563. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-06158-3.

Technology readiness among UK-based cognitively unaffected older adults during 
the COVID-19 pandemic: potential implications for decentralised alzheimer's 
disease prevention trials.

Taylor S(1), Dunn L(1), Udeh-Momoh C(2), Abbott K(1), Giannakopoulou P(1), 
Middleton L(1), Robinson O(1), Kalsi J(1), Kafetsouli D(1), Ford J(3).

Author information:
(1)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(2)School of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(3)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, UK. j.ford@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a global health and socioeconomic 
burden. Telemedicine has been more widely used since the beginning of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and may be an effective strategy to mitigate the rising costs 
associated with AD. This study aimed to assess technology readiness among older 
adults at risk of developing dementia, with the goal of informing the design and 
delivery of technology-based approaches in AD prevention research.
METHODS: Cognitively unaffected older adults (n = 226) from the CHARIOT PRO 
Substudy were invited to complete the CHARIOT Technology Questionnaire (CTQ). 
CTQ assessed technology experiences and attitudes, including 'technology 
readiness' via the Technology Readiness Index (TRI).
RESULTS: Female participants scored, on average, lower TRI (M = 27.50, 
SD = 6.87) compared to males (M = 29.50, SD = 6.02). Furthermore, age predicted 
levels of technology readiness. Exploratory factor analysis determined two 
factors: "Technology Competence" (Factor 1) and "Technology Trepidation" (Factor 
2). Gender differences were found for "Technology Competence" (but not 
"Technology Trepidation"), and age predicted "Technology Trepidation" (but not 
"Technology Competence").
DISCUSSION: Differences in gender, age, "Technology Competence", and "Technology 
Trepidation" may highlight those who need additional study and/or support in 
remote-based AD dementia prevention trials.
CONCLUSIONS: COVID-19 has accelerated our adoption of 'digitalisation' in AD 
dementia research. A deeper understanding of the barriers to technology 
readiness may help inform future AD research studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The CHARIOT PRO SubStudy is registered with 
clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02114372).

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-06158-3
PMCID: PMC12312505
PMID: 40739178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: During the course of our study, we introduced an additional 
questionnaire to gather further insights related to “technology readiness”. The 
questionnaire was provided only to participants who were already active in the 
CHARIOT PRO Substudy. Informed consent was obtained from all participants within 
the CHARIOT PRO Substudy. Participation in the questionnaire was entirely 
voluntary, and respondents were informed that their involvement would not affect 
their continued participation in the CHARIOT PRO Substudy. All responses were 
collected and handled in accordance with the confidentiality and ethical 
standards established for the CHARIOT PRO Substudy. To ensure the quality and 
integrity of research, the CHARIOT PRO Substudy is conducted in accordance with 
GCP Guidelines, GPPs issued by ISPE, applicable national guidelines, and to the 
Declaration of Helsinki 2013, as modified by the 52nd World Medical Assembly 
(WMA), Edinburgh, Scotland, 2000, and clarified by the WMA General Assembly, 
Washington 2002 and Tokyo 2004. The study has received approval from the 
National Research Ethics Service (NRES) Committee London Central (reference 
15/LO/0711 [IRAS 140764]), as well as independent ethics review by committees 
from the local sites. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: L.M. reports grants from Johnson and Johnson, Merck, Takeda, Gates 
Ventures, Eisai, NIHR, UKRI, and research funding from the Davos Alzheimer’s 
Collaborative (DAC), outside the submitted work, all to Imperial College London. 
C.U. declares the following funding received through grants or awards, with 
payments made to their institution: MRC UKRI Applied Global Health Award (2024), 
National Institutes of Health (2024), Wellcome Leap Dynamic Resilience Grant 
(2023), Alzheimer’s Association Sex and Gender Differences Award (2023), Davos 
Alzheimer’s Collaborative Global Cohort Fund (2023), Global Brain Health 
Institute Project Award (2023), and UK Defence and Security Accelerator 
Veterans’ Health Innovation Fund (2022). All other authors have no competing 
interests to disclose.