1. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 17;15(6):885. doi: 10.3390/biom15060885.

Cardiac Glycosides: From Natural Defense Molecules to Emerging Therapeutic 
Agents.

Ponce A(1), Flores-Maldonado C(1), Contreras RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Biophysics and Neurosciences, CINVESTAV-Instituto 
Politecnico Nacional, Mexico City 07360, Mexico.

Cardiac glycosides (CGs), a class of plant- and animal-derived compounds 
historically used to treat heart failure, have garnered renewed interest for 
their diverse pharmacological properties beyond Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) inhibition. 
Recent studies reveal that CGs modulate key signaling pathways-such as NF-κB, 
PI3K/Akt, JAK/STAT, and MAPK-affecting processes central to cancer, viral 
infections, immune regulation, and neurodegeneration. In cancer, CGs induce 
multiple forms of regulated cell death, including apoptosis, ferroptosis, 
pyroptosis, and immunogenic cell death, while also inhibiting angiogenesis, 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and cell cycle progression. They demonstrate 
broad-spectrum antiviral activity by disrupting viral entry, replication, and 
mRNA processing in viruses such as HSV, HIV, influenza, and SARS-CoV-2. 
Immunologically, CGs regulate Th17 differentiation via RORγ signaling, although 
both inhibitory and agonistic effects have been reported. In the nervous system, 
CGs modulate neuroinflammation, support synaptic plasticity, and improve 
cognitive function in models of Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, and multiple 
sclerosis. Despite their therapeutic potential, clinical translation is hindered 
by narrow therapeutic indices and systemic toxicity. Advances in drug design and 
nanocarrier-based delivery are critical to unlocking CGs' full potential as 
multi-target agents for complex diseases. This review synthesizes the current 
knowledge on the emerging roles of CGs and highlights strategies for their safe 
and effective repurposing.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060885
PMCID: PMC12190584
PMID: 40563525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 15;15(6):872. doi: 10.3390/biom15060872.

A Single-Chain Variable Fragment Antibody Alleviates Inflammation and Apoptosis 
of Neurons by Inhibiting Tau Aggregation.

Wang Z(1), Lin J(1), Chang P(1), Sun M(1), Li S(1).

Author information:
(1)Gene Engineering and Biotechnology Beijing Key Laboratory, National 
Demonstration Center for Experimental Life Sciences & Biotechnology Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.

Tau pathology is one of the main pathological features of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Intracellular Tau may be released to the extracellular space upon neuron 
degeneration, where it has the potential to be toxic to other neurons. The 
propagation of Tau pathology, mediated by extracellular Tau aggregates, may 
underlie the pathogenesis of AD. Antibody therapies targeting Tau proteins are, 
therefore, considered highly promising. In this study, the cytotoxicity of 
extracellular Tau aggregates on SH-SY5Y cells was examined. The effect of 
extracellular Tau aggregates on intracellular Tau aggregation was also studied 
using a FRET-based assay. The extracellular Tau aggregates were found to cause 
intracellular Tau aggregation after entering the cells; meanwhile, ROS (reactive 
oxygen species) induced by Tau aggregates facilitated this process. A 
single-chain variable fragment antibody (scFv T1) inhibits Tau aggregation both 
extracellularly and intracellularly. ScFv T1 also inhibited the accumulation of 
ROS and alleviated the inflammation and apoptosis induced by Tau aggregates. 
These findings could provide experimental support for the study of neurotoxicity 
and related mechanisms of extracellular Tau aggregates, in addition to providing 
insights into the development of novel therapeutic agents to treat AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060872
PMCID: PMC12190225
PMID: 40563512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 10;15(6):849. doi: 10.3390/biom15060849.

Conditioned Generative Modeling of Molecular Glues: A Realistic AI Approach for 
Synthesizable Drug-like Molecules.

Islam NN(1), Caulfield TR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(2)Digital Ether Computing, Miami, FL33130, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by the pathological accumulation of amyloid 
beta-42 (Aβ42), contributing to synaptic dysfunction and neurodegeneration. 
While extracellular amyloid plaques are well-studied, increasing evidence 
highlights intracellular Aβ42 as an early and toxic driver of disease 
progression. In this study, we present a novel, Generative AI-based drug design 
approach to promote targeted degradation of Aβ42 via the ubiquitin-proteasome 
system (UPS), using E3 ligase-directed molecular glues. We systematically 
evaluated the ternary complex formation potential of Aβ42 with three E3 ligases 
(CRBN, VHL, and MDM2) through structure-based modeling, ADMET screening, and 
docking. We then developed a Ligase-Conditioned Junction Tree Variational 
Autoencoder (LC-JT-VAE) to generate ligase-specific small molecules, 
incorporating protein sequence embeddings and torsional angle-aware molecular 
graphs. Our results demonstrate that this generative model can produce 
chemically valid, novel, and target-specific molecular glues capable of 
facilitating Aβ42 degradation. This integrated approach offers a promising 
framework for designing UPS-targeted therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060849
PMCID: PMC12190558
PMID: 40563489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: N.N.I and T.R.C. declare they have no competing 
interests. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.


4. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 5;15(6):825. doi: 10.3390/biom15060825.

Heterostilbene Carbamates with Selective and Remarkable Butyrylcholinesterase 
Inhibition: Computational Study and Physico-Chemical Properties.

Raspudić A(1), Odak I(1), Mlakić M(2), Jelčić A(2), Bulava K(2), Karadža K(2), 
Milašinović V(3), Šagud I(4), Pongrac P(5), Štefok D(5), Barić D(6), Škorić 
I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Education, University of 
Mostar, Matice Hrvatske bb, 88 000 Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, University of Zagreb, Trg Marka Marulića 19, HR-10 000 Zagreb, 
Croatia.
(3)Laboratory for Chemical and Biological Crystallography, Division of Physical 
Chemistry, Ruđer Bošković Institute, Bijenička Cesta 54, HR-10 000 Zagreb, 
Croatia.
(4)Croatian Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Ksaverska Cesta 
4, HR-10 000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)Faculty of Biotechnology and Drug Development, University of Rijeka, Radmile 
Matejčić 2, HR-51 000 Rijeka, Croatia.
(6)Group for Computational Life Sciences, Division of Physical Chemistry, Ruđer 
Bošković Institute, Bijenička Cesta 54, HR-10 000 Zagreb, Croatia.

This manuscript reports the synthesis and characterization of 19 novel 
heterostilbene carbamates, designed as selective butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) 
inhibitors with potential applications in the treatment of neurodegenerative 
disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease. The compounds were synthesized from 
resveratrol analogs, and their structures were confirmed by NMR spectroscopy, 
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS), and single-crystal X-ray diffraction 
for selected derivatives (compounds 1 and 4). In vitro assays demonstrated high 
selectivity toward BChE over acetylcholinesterase (AChE), with compound 16 
exhibiting exceptional inhibitory activity (IC50 = 26.5 nM). Furthermore, 
compound 16 showed moderate anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting 
LPS-stimulated TNF-α production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In silico 
ADME(T) profiling revealed favorable pharmacokinetic properties and low 
mutagenic potential for the majority of compounds. Molecular docking and 
molecular dynamics simulations confirmed stable binding interactions within the 
BChE active site. These results highlight heterostilbene carbamates as promising 
lead structures for developing novel therapeutic agents targeting 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060825
PMCID: PMC12191008
PMID: 40563465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 5;15(6):824. doi: 10.3390/biom15060824.

The Role and Pathogenesis of Tau Protein in Alzheimer's Disease.

Hong X(1)(2), Huang L(1), Lei F(3), Li T(4), Luo Y(1)(2), Zeng M(3), Wang 
Z(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, 
Wuhan 430071, China.
(2)Hubei Provincial Clinical Research Center for Molecular Diagnostics, Zhongnan 
Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China.
(3)Medical Science Research Center, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 
430071, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, 
China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a predominant neurodegenerative disorder, is 
clinically characterized by progressive cognitive deterioration and behavioral 
deficits. An in-depth understanding of the pathogenesis and neuropathology of AD 
is essential for the development of effective treatments and early diagnosis 
techniques. The neuropathological signature of AD involves two hallmark lesions: 
intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau 
aggregates and extracellular senile plaques containing amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide 
depositions. Although Aβ-centric research has dominated AD investigations over 
the past three decades, pharmacological interventions targeting Aβ pathology 
have failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy. Tau, a microtubule-associated 
protein predominantly localized to neuronal axons, orchestrates microtubule 
stabilization and axonal transport through dynamic tubulin interactions under 
physiological conditions. In AD pathogenesis, however, tau undergoes pathogenic 
post-translational modifications (PTMs), encompassing hyperphosphorylation, 
lysine acetylation, methylation, ubiquitination, and glycosylation. These 
PTM-driven alterations induce microtubule network disintegration, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, synaptic impairment, and neuroinflammatory cascades, ultimately 
culminating in irreversible neurodegeneration and progressive cognitive decline. 
This review synthesizes contemporary advances in tau PTM research and delineates 
their mechanistic contributions to AD pathogenesis, thereby establishing a 
framework for biomarker discovery, targeted therapeutic development, and 
precision medicine approaches in tauopathies. This review synthesizes 
contemporary advances in tau PTM research and delineates their mechanistic 
contributions to AD pathogenesis, thereby establishing a solid theoretical and 
experimental basis for the early diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases, the 
discovery of therapeutic targets, and the development of novel therapeutic 
strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060824
PMCID: PMC12190531
PMID: 40563464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


6. Biomolecules. 2025 May 29;15(6):788. doi: 10.3390/biom15060788.

CLSI Validation of Exchangeable Copper Determination in Serum by ICP-MS: A Focus 
on Alzheimer's Disease and Wilson Disease.

Squitti R(1)(2), Pal A(3), Ivanova ID(4), Marianetti M(5), Rongioletti M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Science, Research and Development Division, Ospedale 
Isola Tiberina-Gemelli Isola, 00186 Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Theoretical and Applied Sciences, eCampus University, Viale 
Massenzio Masia, 26, 22100 Como, Italy.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalyani 
741245, West Bengal, India.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, St. Ivan Rilski University Hospital, 
Medical University, 1431 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and the Experimental Alzheimer Center, 
Fatebenefratelli Roman Province, Via Cassia 600, 00189 Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Copper dyshomeostasis has been implicated in a subset of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) patients, characterized by elevated non-ceruloplasmin-bound copper 
(non-Cp Cu). However, traditional methods for estimating non-Cp Cu are indirect 
and analytically imprecise. This study introduces and validates a direct assay 
for exchangeable copper (ExcCu) by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry 
(ICP-MS), compliant with Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) 
guidelines.
METHODS: We performed analytical validation of the ExcCu assay following CLSI 
protocols (EP5, EP6, EP7, EP9, EP15, and EP28). ExcCu and other copper-related 
biomarkers were quantified in serum samples from 154 healthy controls, 82 AD 
patients, and 10 patients with Wilson disease (WD). Diagnostic performance was 
evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, and 
inter-method agreement was assessed using Bland-Altman plots.
RESULTS: The ExcCu assay demonstrated excellent linearity, precision (CV < 6%), 
and inter-laboratory reproducibility. Among AD patients, ExcCu levels were 
significantly elevated compared to controls (p < 0.001). ExcCu distinguished AD 
from controls with an AUC of 0.80 and a specificity of 95%. Compared to non-Cp 
Cu, ExcCu yielded no negative values and showed reduced bias. The relative 
exchangeable copper (REC) index was more effective in differentiating AD from WD 
(AUC = 0.88).
CONCLUSIONS: The validated ExcCu assay overcomes the limitations of the 
traditional non-Cp Cu calculation, offering a reliable biomarker for 
copper-related AD subtypes. Its high specificity supports its use in patient 
stratification, potentially contributing to personalized approaches in AD 
diagnosis and therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15060788
PMCID: PMC12190365
PMID: 40563428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


7. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jun 12;14(6):715. doi: 10.3390/antiox14060715.

Astaxanthin: A Compound in the Prevention of Chronic Diseases and as a Potential 
Adjuvant Treatment Agent.

Zhu X(1), Chen X(2), Wang M(3), Hu H(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Jinhua University of Vocational Technology, Jinhua 
321017, China.
(2)Innovation Center of Translational Pharmacy, Jinhua Institute of Zhejiang 
University, Jinhua 321016, China.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 
2052, Australia.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China.
(5)Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia.

Astaxanthin (AST) is a fat-soluble carotenoid antioxidant. AST exhibits multiple 
protective mechanisms, including its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, 
immunomodulatory, anti-apoptotic, nervous system-protective, anti-tumor, and 
anti-fibrotic effects. These effects make it a promising compound for the 
prevention of chronic diseases. AST can protect the nervous system against 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. It also 
protects the liver and helps reduce the risk of chronic kidney disease. 
Additionally, it improves cardiovascular health and has anti-diabetic 
properties. This review aims to provide an updated overview covering the 
protective effects of AST against various chronic diseases, including its 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic effects. We also discuss the 
strategies used for improving astaxanthin bioavailability and its potential as 
an adjuvant therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14060715
PMCID: PMC12189495
PMID: 40563347

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jun 9;14(6):696. doi: 10.3390/antiox14060696.

Oxidative Stress: Pathological Driver in Chronic Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Chong ZZ(1), Souayah N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers University, 185 S 
Orange, Newark, NJ 07103, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers University, 90 
Bergen Street DOC 8100, Newark, NJ 07101, USA.

Oxidative stress has become a common impetus of various diseases, including 
neurodegenerative diseases. This review introduces the generation of reactive 
oxygen species (ROSs) in the nervous system, the cellular oxidative damage, and 
the high sensitivity of the brain to ROSs. The literature review focuses on the 
roles of oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Oxidative stress occurs when excessively 
produced free radicals are beyond the capability of endogenous antioxidants to 
scavenge, leading to the oxidation of proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids, 
stimulating neuroinflammatory responses, causing neuronal dysfunction, 
senescence, and death. The dysfunctional mitochondria and aberrant activities of 
metabolic enzymes are the major source of ROSs. The high vulnerability of the 
nervous system to ROSs underlies the critical roles of oxidative stress in 
neurodegenerative diseases. Gene mutations and other risk factors promote the 
generation of ROSs, which have been considered a crucial force causing the main 
pathological features of AD, PD, HD, and ALS. As a result, antioxidants hold 
therapeutic potential in these neurodegenerative diseases. The elucidation of 
the pathogenic mechanisms of oxidative stress will facilitate the development of 
antioxidants for the treatment of these diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14060696
PMCID: PMC12189608
PMID: 40563328

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


9. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 May 30;14(6):663. doi: 10.3390/antiox14060663.

Short-Term Inhibition of NOX2 Prevents the Development of Aβ-Induced Pathology 
in Mice.

Mukhina KA(1), Kechko OI(1), Osypov AA(1)(2)(3), Petrushanko IY(1), Makarov 
AA(1), Mitkevich VA(1), Popova IY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics of the Russian Academy 
of Sciences, 142290 Pushchino, Russia.
(3)Institute of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 117485 Moscow, Russia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder, 
characterized by the formation of neurotoxic beta-amyloid (Aβ) oligomers in the 
central nervous system. One of the earliest pathological effects of Aβ is the 
induction of oxidative stress in brain tissue, mediated by NADPH oxidase 2 
(NOX2). This study aimed to determine whether short-term inhibition of NOX2 
could disrupt the pathological cascade and prevent the development of Aβ-induced 
pathology. We demonstrated that suppressing NOX2 activity by GSK2795039 during 
the first three days after intracerebral Aβ administration prevented the 
development of the pathological process in mice. Two weeks after the induction 
of Aβ pathology, animals treated with GSK2795039 showed no neuropsychiatric-like 
behavioral changes, which correlated with the absence of chronic oxidative 
damage in brain tissue. Moreover, GSK2795039 prevented microglial activation and 
reduced microglia-associated neuroinflammation. These findings indicate that 
short-term NOX2 inhibition effectively suppresses the development of Aβ-induced 
pathology, suggesting that NOX2 is a potential target for treatment and 
prevention of AD pathology.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14060663
PMCID: PMC12189101
PMID: 40563297

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


10. Biogerontology. 2025 Jun 25;26(4):129. doi: 10.1007/s10522-025-10274-3.

Positive effects of HIIT and vitamin E on cognitive function, angiogenesis and 
NRF2 antioxidant pathway in male rats with Alzheimer's disease.

Salehi O(1), Sheikholeslami-Vatani D(2), Hosseini SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, University of Kurdistan, 
Sanandaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, University of Kurdistan, 
Sanandaj, Iran. d.vatani@uok.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Sport Physiology, Marvdasht Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Marvdasht, Iran.

Interactive effects of exercise and antioxidant supplements are still not well 
known. So, The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of high 
intensity interval training (HIIT) and vitamin E (VE) on the PI3K/NRF2 pathway 
in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease rats (AD). In this expremantal study, 
fifty aged AD rats with 10 mg/kg trimethyltin (TMT), were divided into groups 1) 
TMT, 2) VE solvent (Sham), 3) VE (30 mg/kg), 4) HIIT (90-95% of the maximum 
running speed) and 5) HIIT+VE. Ten healthy rats were included in the healthy 
control group to investigate the effect of TMT on research variables. Results 
Showed that, HIIT, VE and HIIT+VE decreased amyloid beta (P≤0.05), HIIT and 
HIIT+VE decreased NF-kB (P≤0.05) as well as HIIT, VE and HIIT+VE increased SOD 
and decreased MDA. HIIT simultaneously with VE increased PI3K, NRF2, and Cat. 
HIIT, VE and the interaction of HIIT and VE decreased the expression of miR-125b 
and increased expression of miR-132 (P≤0.05); The combination of HIIT and VE 
increased capillary density in areas 1 and 3, the percentage of healthy cells in 
C1 and C3 areas of the hippocampus (P≤0.05). The effects of HIIT and HIIT+VE on 
improving memory were better than VE (P≤0.05). It seems that HIIT and VE can 
synergistically increase the expression of antioxidant genes from the PI3K/NRF2 
pathway by decreasing miR-125 and increasing miR-132. Probably, this happens by 
reducing some AD markers, increasing angiogenesis and cell protection as well as 
cognitive memory in AD situation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-025-10274-3
PMID: 40562949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


11. Nat Neurosci. 2025 Jul;28(7):1393-1403. doi: 10.1038/s41593-025-01998-z. Epub
 2025 Jun 25.

Fine-mapping genomic loci refines bipolar disorder risk genes.

Koromina M(1)(2)(3), Ravi A(4)(5)(6)(7), Panagiotaropoulou G(8), Schilder 
BM(4)(6)(7), Humphrey J(4)(5)(6)(7), Braun A(8), Bidgeli T(9), Chatzinakos C(9), 
Coombes BJ(10), Kim J(11), Liu X(12)(13), Terao C(12)(13)(14), O'Connell 
KS(15)(16), Adams MJ(17), Adolfsson R(18), Alda M(19)(20), Alfredsson L(21), 
Andlauer TFM(22), Andreassen OA(15)(16), Antoniou A(23), Baune BT(24)(25)(26), 
Bengesser S(27), Biernacka J(10)(28), Boehnke M(29), Bosch R(30)(31), Cairns 
MJ(32), Carr VJ(33), Casas M(30)(31), Catts S(34), Cichon S(35)(36)(37)(38), 
Corvin A(39), Craddock N(40), Dafnas K(23), Dalkner N(27), Dannlowski U(41), 
Degenhardt F(36)(42), Di Florio A(40)(43), Dikeos D(23), Fellendorf FT(27), 
Ferentinos P(23)(44), Forstner AJ(36)(38)(45), Forty L(40), Frye M(28), 
Fullerton JM(46)(47), Gawlik M(48), Gizer IR(49), Gordon-Smith K(50), Green 
MJ(46)(51), Grigoroiu-Serbanescu M(52), Guzman-Parra J(53), Hahn T(41), Henskens 
F(32), Hillert J(54), Jablensky AV(55), Jones L(50), Jones I(40), Jonsson L(56), 
Kelsoe JR(57), Kircher T(58), Kirov G(40), Kittel-Schneider S(48)(59)(60), 
Kogevinas M(61), Landén M(56)(62), Leboyer M(63)(64), Lenger M(27), Lissowska 
J(65), Lochner C(66), Loughland C(32), MacIntyre DJ(17), Martin NG(67)(68), 
Maratou E(69), Mathews CA(70), Mayoral F(53), McElroy SL(71), McGregor NW(72), 
McIntosh A(17), McQuillin A(73), Michie P(32), Mitchell PB(51), Moutsatsou 
P(69), Mowry B(34), Müller-Myhsok B(74)(75), Myers RM(76), Nenadić I(58)(77), 
Nievergelt CM(57), Nöthen MM(36), Nurnberger J(78)(79)(80), 'Donovan MO(40), 
'Donovan CO(19), Ophoff RA(81)(82)(83), Owen MJ(40), Pantelis C(84), Pato C(85), 
Pato MT(85), Patrinos GP(86)(87)(88)(89), Pawlak JM(90), Perlis RH(91)(92), 
Porichi E(23), Posthuma D(93)(94), Ramos-Quiroga JA(30)(95)(96)(97), Reif A(59), 
Reininghaus EZ(27), Ribasés M(30)(95)(97)(98), Rietschel M(99), Schall U(32), 
Schofield PR(51), Schulze TG(99)(100)(101)(102)(103), Scott L(29), Scott RJ(32), 
Serretti A(104)(105), Smoller JW(106)(107)(108), Świątkowska B(109), Soler 
Artigas M(30)(95)(96)(97), Stein DJ(110), Streit F(99)(111)(112)(113), Toma 
C(46)(51)(114), Tooney P(32), Vawter MP(115)(116), Vieta E(117), Vincent 
JB(118), Waldman ID(119), Weickert CS(51)(120), Weickert T(51)(120), Witt 
SH(99), Hong KS(121), Ikeda M(122), Iwata N(122), Won HH(11)(123), Edenberg 
HJ(124)(125), Ripke S(8)(126), Raj T(4)(6)(7), Coleman JRI(44)(127), Mullins 
N(128)(129)(130).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, NY, USA. maria.koromina@mssm.edu.
(2)Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA. maria.koromina@mssm.edu.
(3)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA. maria.koromina@mssm.edu.
(4)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, NY, USA.
(6)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA.
(7)Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité-Universitätsmedizin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(9)SUNY Downstate Health Sciences University, Brooklyn, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(11)Department of Digital Health, Samsung Advanced Institute for Health Sciences 
and Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(12)Laboratory for Statistical and Translational Genetics, RIKEN Center for 
Integrative Medical Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
(13)Clinical Research Center, Shizuoka General Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(14)The Department of Applied Genetics, The School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan.
(15)Division of Mental Health and Addiction, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.
(16)Centre for Precision Psychiatry, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(17)Division of Psychiatry, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, The University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(18)Department of Clinical Sciences, Psychiatry, Umeå University Medical 
Faculty, Umeå, Sweden.
(19)Department of Psychiatry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
Canada.
(20)National Institute of Mental Health, Klecany, Czech Republic.
(21)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(22)Department of Neurology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, School of Medicine, 
Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(23)Second Department of Psychiatry, Attikon General Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(24)Department of Psychiatry, University of Münster, Münster, Germany.
(25)Department of Psychiatry, Melbourne Medical School, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(26)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(27)Medical University of Graz, Division of Psychiatry and Psychotherapeutic 
Medicine, Graz, Austria.
(28)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(29)Center for Statistical Genetics and Department of Biostatistics, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(30)Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Biomedical Network Research Centre on Mental 
Health (CIBERSAM), Madrid, Spain.
(31)Programa SJD MIND Escoles, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Institut de Recerca 
Sant Joan de Déu, Esplugues de Llobregat, Spain.
(32)University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia.
(33)School of Clinical Medicine, Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(34)University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(35)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(36)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, School of Medicine and 
University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(37)Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.
(38)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany.
(39)Neuropsychiatric Genetics Research Group, Department of Psychiatry and 
Trinity Translational Medicine Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(40)Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Division of Psychological 
Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(41)Institute for Translational Psychiatry, University of Münster, Münster, 
Germany.
(42)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and 
Psychotherapy, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, 
Duisburg, Germany.
(43)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(44)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(45)Centre for Human Genetics, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(46)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(47)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of 
New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(48)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, Center of Mental 
Health, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(49)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, 
USA.
(50)Psychological Medicine, University of Worcester, Worcester, UK.
(51)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, School of Clinical Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(52)Biometric Psychiatric Genetics Research Unit, Alexandru Obregia Clinical 
Psychiatric Hospital, Bucharest, Romania.
(53)Mental Health Department, University Regional Hospital, Biomedicine 
Institute (IBIMA), Málaga, Spain.
(54)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(55)University of Western Australia, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia.
(56)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(57)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.
(58)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Marburg, Marburg, 
Germany.
(59)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, 
University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(60)Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioural Science, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(61)ISGlobal, Barcelona, Spain.
(62)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(63)University of Paris Est Créteil, INSERM, IMRB, Translatiol Neuropsychiatry, 
Créteil, France.
(64)Department of Psychiatry and Addiction Medicine, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(65)Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention, M. Sklodowska-Curie National Research 
Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.
(66)SA MRC Unit on Risk and Resilience in Mental Disorders, Department of 
Psychiatry, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(67)Genetics and Computational Biology, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research 
Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(68)School of Psychology, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(69)Medical School, Clinical Biochemistry Laboratory, Attikon General Hospital, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(70)Department of Psychiatry and Genetics Institute, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.
(71)Research Institute, Lindner Center of HOPE, Mason, OH, USA.
(72)Systems Genetics Working Group, Department of Genetics, Stellenbosch 
University, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(73)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(74)Department of Translational Research in Psychiatry, Max Planck Institute of 
Psychiatry, Munich, Germany.
(75)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(76)HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, Huntsville, AL, USA.
(77)Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior (CMBB), University of Marburg and Justus 
Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(78)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(79)Departments of Psychiatry and Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(80)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(81)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and 
Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(82)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(83)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Science, Semel Institute, David 
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(84)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(85)Institute for Genomic Health, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, College of 
Medicine, Brooklyn, NY, USA.
(86)Department of Pharmacy, Laboratory of Pharmacogenomics and Individualized 
Therapy, University of Patras School of Health Sciences, Patras, Greece.
(87)Department of Genetics and Genomics, United Arab Emirates University, 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(88)Zayed Center for Health Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al-Ain, 
United Arab Emirates.
(89)Faculty of Medicina and Health Sciences, Department of Pathology, Clinical 
Bioinformatics Unit, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(90)Department of Psychiatric Genetics, Department of Psychiatry, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(91)Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(92)Division of Clinical Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(93)Department of Complex Trait Genetics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive 
Research, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(94)Department of Clinical Genetics, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(95)Department of Mental Health, Hospital Universitari Vall d´Hebron, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(96)Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(97)Psychiatric Genetics Unit, Group of Psychiatry Mental Health and Addictions, 
Vall d´Hebron Research Institut (VHIR), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(98)Department of Genetics, Microbiology and Statistics, Faculty of Biology, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(99)Department of Genetic Epidemiology in Psychiatry, Central Institute of 
Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, 
Germany.
(100)Institute of Psychiatric Phenomics and Genomics (IPPG), University 
Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(101)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(102)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(103)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(104)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Kore University of Enna, Enna, Italy.
(105)Oasi Research Institute-IRCCS, Troina, Italy.
(106)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, 
USA.
(107)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(108)Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit (PNGU), Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(109)Department of Environmental Epidemiology, Nofer Institute of Occupational 
Medicine, Lodz, Poland.
(110)SAMRC Unit on Risk and Resilience in Mental Disorders, Department of 
Psychiatry and Neuroscience Institute, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa.
(111)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central Institute of Mental 
Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(112)Hector Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Psychiatry, Central 
Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(113)German Center for Mental Health (DZPG), partner site 
Mannheim/Heidelberg/Ulm, Heidelberg, Germany.
(114)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid 
and CSIC, Madrid, Spain.
(115)Functional Genomics Laboratory, School of Medicine, University of 
California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(116)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, School of Medicine, University 
of California Irvine, Irvin, CA, USA.
(117)Clinical Institute of Neuroscience, Hospital Clinic, University of 
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERSAM, Barcelona, Spain.
(118)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(119)Department of Psychology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(120)Department of Neuroscience, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, 
USA.
(121)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(122)Department of Psychiatry, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, 
Toyoake, Japan.
(123)Samsung Advanced Institute for Health Sciences and Technology (SAIHST), 
Sungkyunkwan University, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(124)Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(125)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(126)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(127)NIHR Maudsley Biomedical Research Centre, South London and Maudsley NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(128)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, NY, USA. niamh.mullins@mssm.edu.
(129)Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA. niamh.mullins@mssm.edu.
(130)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York City, NY, USA. niamh.mullins@mssm.edu.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Sep 17:2024.02.12.24302716. doi: 10.1101/2024.02.12.24302716.

Bipolar disorder is a heritable mental illness with complex etiology. While the 
largest published genome-wide association study identified 64 bipolar disorder 
risk loci, the causal SNPs and genes within these loci remain unknown. We 
applied a suite of statistical and functional fine-mapping methods to these loci 
and prioritized 17 likely causal SNPs for bipolar disorder. We mapped these SNPs 
to genes and investigated their likely functional consequences by integrating 
variant annotations, brain cell-type epigenomic annotations, brain quantitative 
trait loci and results from rare variant exome sequencing in bipolar disorder. 
Convergent lines of evidence supported the roles of genes involved in 
neurotransmission and neurodevelopment, including SCN2A, TRANK1, DCLK3, INSYN2B, 
SYNE1, THSD7A, CACNA1B, TUBBP5, FKBP2, RASGRP1, FURIN, FES, MED24 and THRA among 
others in bipolar disorder. These represent promising candidates for functional 
experiments to understand biological mechanisms and therapeutic potential. 
Additionally, we demonstrated that fine-mapping effect sizes can improve 
performance of bipolar disorder polygenic risk scores across diverse populations 
and present a high-throughput fine-mapping pipeline.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-025-01998-z
PMCID: PMC12229890
PMID: 40562893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: O.A.A. has served as a 
speaker for Janssen, Lundbeck and Sunovion, and as a consultant for Cortechs.ai. 
S.K.S. has served as speaker for Janssen, Takeda and Medice Arzneimittel Puetter 
GmbH & CoKG. E.V. has received grants and served as consultant, advisor or CME 
speaker for the following entities (unrelated to the present work): AB-Biotics, 
Abbott, AbbVie, Adamed, Angelini, Biogen, Biohaven, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Casen-Recordati, Celon, Compass, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Ethypharm, Ferrer, 
Gedeon Richter, GH Research, Glaxo Smith-Kline, Idorsia, Janssen, Johnson & 
Johnson, Lundbeck, Newron, Novartis, Organon, Otsuka, Rovi, Sage, 
Sanofi-Aventis, Sunovion, Takeda and Viatris. P.B.M. has received remuneration 
from Janssen (Australia) and Sanofi (Hangzhou) for lectures, and Janssen 
(Australia) for advisory board membership. M.O.D. and M.J.O. have received 
grants from Akrivia Health and Takeda Pharmaceuticals for work unrelated to this 
project. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


12. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun 24:100105. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100105.
Online  ahead of print.

Brain morphological characteristics predicting clinical response to selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors or cholinesterase inhibitors: A study of 
electronic medical records in patients with cognitive disorders.

Onda K(1), Chotiyanonta JS(1), Cowley HP(2), Uchida Y(1), Nowrangi MA(3), Adams 
R(3), Lyketsos CG(3), Zandi PP(3), Oishi K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Research and Exploratory Development Department, Johns Hopkins University 
Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; Richman Family Precision Medicine Center 
of Excellence in Alzheimer's Disease, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA; Richman Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence in 
Alzheimer's Disease, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 
USA; Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: koishi2@jhmi.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Current treatments for cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms in 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), such as cholinesterase 
inhibitors (CEIs) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), show 
inconsistent effectiveness, necessitating a personalized therapy approach. We 
aimed to develop predictive models using MRI-derived brain neuroanatomical 
features and clinical data to forecast responses to CEIs and SSRIs in ADRD 
patients.
DESIGN AND SETTING: This was a retrospective observational analysis of 
electronic health records (EHRs) and MRI data conducted within Johns Hopkins 
Medical Systems.
PARTICIPANTS: Cohort 1 comprised 179 patients prescribed CEIs or SSRIs for the 
first time with over a year of follow-up. Cohort 2 included 1244 patients with 
similar criteria to explore clinical characteristics linked to MRI features 
affecting treatment benefits.
MEASURES: Medication efficacy was assessed via a Likert scale based on EMR 
descriptions. We quantified brain volumes across 280 anatomical areas on 
T1-weighted MRIs and applied an elastic net model after harmonizing volumes with 
the ComBat model. Predictive model efficacy was evaluated using receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.
RESULTS: Preserved volume in the nucleus basalis of Meynert correlated with 
better responses to both CEIs and SSRIs. Specific white matter volumes related 
to CEI benefits, while SSRI efficacy was linked to gray matter in the Nucleus 
Accumbens and frontal cortex. Area under ROC curve values were 0.82 for CEI and 
0.75 for SSRI predictions. Older age and vascular factors were associated with 
reduced medication benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: MRI-derived neuroanatomical features effectively predict medication 
responses in ADRD, potentially enabling more tailored treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100105
PMID: 40562637

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: K. Oishi is a consultant for 
"AnatomyWorks" and "Corporate-M." This arrangement is being managed by the Johns 
Hopkins University in accordance with its conflict-of-interest policies. The 
remaining authors have nothing to disclose. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


13. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun 24:100107. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100107.
Online  ahead of print.

Clinical trials for neuropsychiatric syndromes in major and mild neurocognitive 
disorders: A CONSORT-based approach.

Cummings JL(1), Zhong K(2), Ballard C(3), Sano M(4), Mintzer J(5).

Author information:
(1)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV, University of Nevada Las 
Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA. Electronic address: 
jcummings@cnsinnovations.com.
(2)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV, University of Nevada Las 
Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(3)Exeter University Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NYC NY and 
James J. Peters VAMC, Bronx, NY, USA.
(5)Ralph. H. Johnson VA Medical Center, Charleston, SC and College of Health 
Professions, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.

Neuropsychiatric syndromes (NPS) such as agitation, psychosis, apathy, and 
irritability are among the most disabling features of major and mild 
neurocognitive disorders including Alzheimer's disease, other neurodegenerative 
disorders (NDD), and vascular cognitive impairment. Clinical trial methodologies 
for the treatment of these syndromes are evolving and the first agents to reduce 
NPS severity has been approved. Biomarkers are rapidly becoming available to 
guide clinical trial decision-making. Biomarkers can confirm the diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease and are playing a larger role in non-Alzheimer trials. The 
Consolidated Standards for Reporting Trials (CONSORT) specify the elements of 
clinical trials that must be reported when clinical trials are published. These 
criteria provide conventions for uniform reporting of all key aspects of a 
clinical trial and facilitate comparisons across trials. We describe best 
practices for clinical trials of NPS including research definitions of the NDD, 
use of biomarkers to support clinical diagnosis, research criteria for NPS, use 
of rating scales to define the severity of NPS at baseline and as endpoints for 
the clinical trial, and approaches to data analysis of specific interest in NPS 
trials. Standards for describing the limitations of trials and their 
generalizability are provided. The goal is to inform planning and reporting of 
NPS trials including the use of biomarkers based on CONSORT guidelines for best 
trial practices.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100107
PMID: 40562636

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with National Institute on Aging that includes: funding grants. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke that includes: funding grants. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with NIH National Institute of General Medical Sciences that 
includes:. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Acadia Pharmaceuticals 
Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Acumen Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory and equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
ALZPath that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Annovis Bio Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and 
equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Aprinoia 
Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports 
a relationship with Artery Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory and equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Axsome Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Biohaven Ltd that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with BioXcel 
Therapeutics, Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Fosun 
Pharma USA Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Global Alzheimer’s Platform Foundation that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Shanghai 
Green Valley Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Hummingbird Diagnostics GmbH that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with Karuna Therapeutics Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Kinoxis 
Therapeutics Pty. Ltd. that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Lighthouse Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Eli Lilly 
and Company that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with LSP Dementia Fund Management that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Mangrove Therapeutics 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with Merck Sharp & Dohme UK Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with MoCA Cognition that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with NewAmsterdam Pharma 
Corporation that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Novo Nordisk Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with OptoCeutics ApS that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Oxford Brain Diagnostics that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Praxis Bioresearch, 
Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Prothena Biosciences Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with reMYND Nv that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with F 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Scottish Brain Sciences that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Signant Health that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Simcere of America that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Sinaptica Therapeutics, Inc. that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with T-Neuro 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with Truebinding, Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Vaxxinity Inc that includes: consulting or advisory 
and equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Medavante-Prophase that includes: equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Behrens that includes: equity or stocks. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Alzheon Inc that includes: equity or stocks. Kate 
Zhong reports a relationship with CNS Innovations, LLC that includes: 
employment. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with 
Johnson & Johnson Services Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive 
Ballard reports a relationship with Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Co that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a 
relationship with Eli Lilly and Company that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Clive Ballard reports a relationship with TauRx Pharmaceuticals Ltd that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with Novo 
Nordisk that includes: consulting or advisory and funding grants. Clive Ballard 
reports a relationship with BioXcel Therapeutics, Inc. that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with Orion Pharma (UK) Ltd 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with 
Addex Therapeutics Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard 
reports a relationship with AARP that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive 
Ballard reports a relationship with GW Pharmaceuticals that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with 
Sunovion that includes: consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a 
relationship with Suven Pharmaceuticals Limited that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Clive Ballard reports a relationship with reMYND Nv that 
includes: funding grants. Mary Sano reports a relationship with National 
Institutes of Health that includes: funding grants. Mary Sano reports a 
relationship with National Institute on Aging that includes: funding grants. 
Mary Sano reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Mary Sano reports a relationship with Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano reports a relationship with vTv 
Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano reports a 
relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano 
reports a relationship with BioXcel Therapeutics, Inc. that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Mary Sano reports a relationship with F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano reports a relationship with Merck 
Sharp & Dohme UK Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano reports a 
relationship with Novo Nordisk that includes: consulting or advisory. Mary Sano 
reports a relationship with Novartis that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with 
AARP that includes: consulting or advisory and funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer 
reports a relationship with AiOmed that includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo 
Mintzer reports a relationship with Alliance for Aging Research that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Exciva that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with 
Genentech that includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a 
relationship with Lundbeck LLC that includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo 
Mintzer reports a relationship with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Avanir 
Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jacobo Mintzer 
reports a relationship with Praxis Bioresearch that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Alzheimer’s Association 
that includes: board membership and funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a 
relationship with Technology Accelerator Company that includes: board 
membership. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with NeuroQuest that includes: 
equity or stocks. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Biopharma Connex 
that includes: equity or stocks. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with 
Recruitment Partners that includes: equity or stocks. Jacobo Mintzer reports a 
relationship with National Institute on Aging that includes: funding grants. 
Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: funding 
grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery 
Foundation that includes: funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship 
with Cognition Therapeutics Inc that includes: funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer 
reports a relationship with Suven Life Sciences Limited that includes: funding 
grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Cerevel Therapeutics Inc that 
includes: funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Karuna 
Therapeutics Inc that includes: funding grants. Jacobo Mintzer reports a 
relationship with National Endowment for the Arts that includes: funding grants. 
Jacobo Mintzer reports a relationship with Vivoryon Therapeutic that includes: 
funding grants. Jeffrey Cummings has patent Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) 
with royalties paid to Jeffrey Cummings. Co-author is a Steering Committee 
Member for the Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials Consortium (ACTC), and the 
Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute (ATRI); is an Association Member of 
the International Psychogeriatric Association (IPA); is a member of the Nabilone 
for Agitation Blinded Intervention Trial (NAB-IT) and the Cannabinoid Liquid 
Medication Intervention Trial (CALM-IT) Data Safety and Monitoring Boards (DSMB) 
- JM. Co-author is the chair of the DSMB for a Phase II Trial to Evaluate Safety 
and Efficacy of GM-CSF/Sargramostim in Alzheimer’s Disease (SESAD) (sponsor: 
University of Colorado); Alzheimer Association Member of Medical and Scientific 
Advisory Group - MS. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


14. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2025 Jul 1;85(25):2472-2491. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2025.04.057.

The Impact of Cognitive Impairment on Cardiovascular Disease.

Jamil Y(1), Krishnaswami A(2), Orkaby AR(3), Stimmel M(4), Brown Iv CH(5), Mecca 
AP(6), Forman DE(7), Rich MW(8), Nanna MG(9), Damluji AA(10).

Author information:
(1)Inova Center of Outcomes Research, Falls Church, Virginia, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Kaiser Permanente San Jose Medical Center, San Jose, 
California, USA.
(3)VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Aging, 
Brigham & Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine Stanford 
University, Stanford California, USA.
(6)Alzheimer's Disease Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine (Geriatrics and Cardiology), University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA; Geriatrics Research, Education and Clinical 
Center, Pittsburgh, VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(8)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, USA.
(9)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(10)Inova Center of Outcomes Research, Falls Church, Virginia, USA; Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA; Cardiovascular 
Center on Aging, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Electronic 
address: damluja@ccf.org.

The older adult population is the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. 
population. Cardiovascular disease is common among older patients, which leads 
to excess morbidity, mortality, and health care utilization. Cognitive 
impairment is also common in older adults with cardiovascular disease and is 
expected to increase in parallel with cardiovascular disease because both 
conditions share the same underlying risk factors. Cardiovascular disease also 
exacerbates cognitive impairment through hypertension, cerebral hypoperfusion, 
inflammation, arrhythmia, emboli, and medication adverse events. Moreover, 
cognitive impairment can undermine the treatment of patients with cardiovascular 
disease because of changes in health literacy, adherence, and even the 
likelihood that guideline-directed medical and/or interventional management are 
under-prescribed. Patients with cognitive impairment are also more likely to 
endure delays in care and reduced participation in formative cardiovascular 
trials. In this State-of-the-Art review, we aim to: 1) examine the distinct 
types of cognitive impairment prevalent among cardiac patients; 2) explore the 
fundamental pathophysiology and mechanisms of cognitive impairment in adults 
with cardiovascular disease; 3) delineate the bidirectional impact of cognitive 
impairment and cardiovascular disease; and 4) discuss evidence-based management 
strategies to mitigate cognitive impairment in patients with cardiovascular 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2025.04.057
PMCID: PMC12309292
PMID: 40562512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Funding Support and Author Disclosures Dr Nanna 
has received current research support from the American College of Cardiology 
Foundation supported by the George F. and Ann Harris Bellows Foundation, the 
Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, the Yale Claude D. Pepper Older 
Americans Independence Center (P30AG021342), and the National Institute on Aging 
(K76AG088428); and has received personal fees from Heart- “ow, Inc, Merck, and 
Novo Nordisk. Dr Damluji has received research funding from the Pepper Scholars 
Program of the Johns Hopkins University Claude D. Pepper Older Americans 
Independence Center funded by the NIA P30-AG021334; a mentored patient-oriented 
research career development award from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute K23-HL153771-01. All other authors have reported that they have no 
relationships relevant to the contents of this paper to disclose.


15. Exp Neurol. 2025 Oct;392:115357. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115357. Epub
2025  Jun 23.

FGFR1 agonists alleviate pathology and cognitive impairment in an Alzheimer's 
disease mouse model.

Hung WC(1), Sun WC(2), Su TC(3), Lee YJ(4), Cheng IH(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Brain Science, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan; Taiwan International Graduate Program in 
Molecular Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University and Academia 
Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Brain Science, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan; Taiwan International Graduate Program in 
Interdisciplinary Neuroscience, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University and 
Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Brain Science, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Institute of Brain Science, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, 
Taipei City Hospital Renai Branch, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Brain Science, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan; Taiwan International Graduate Program in 
Molecular Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University and Academia 
Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; Taiwan International Graduate Program in 
Interdisciplinary Neuroscience, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University and 
Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; Brain Research Center, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: ihjcheng@nycu.edu.tw.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, characterized by the 
buildup of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, which lead to neuronal 
damage and trigger inflammatory responses in glial cells. The fibroblast growth 
factor receptor 1 (FGFR1)-mediated signaling pathways support the function of 
damaged neurons and modulate the inflammatory response. The FGFR1 agonists, 
including Fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) and FG loop peptide (FGL), have been 
implicated in multiple disease therapies. However, whether FGFR1 agonists can 
improve pathology and cognitive function in AD remains unknown. This study 
showed that administration of FGF1 and FGL to the AD mouse model reversed 
spatial memory impairment, enhanced neurogenesis, suppressed reactive 
astrogliosis, and restricted dystrophic neurites. However, only FGF1 treatment 
reduced the deposition of senile plaque. In microglial culture studies, FGF1 
improves the phagocytosis ability of microglia, but this effect is blocked by 
the FGFR1-specific inhibitor. Together, our findings suggested that FGFR1 
agonists alleviate pathological and cognitive impairments in the AD mouse model.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115357
PMID: 40562341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


16. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Sep 13;493:115710. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115710. Epub
 2025 Jun 24.

Interplay between exercise and neuregulin in providing neuroprotection.

Sharma J(1), Thakur A(2), Rain M(1), Khosla R(3), Maity K(4), Mathur GR(5), 
Anand A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education 
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(4)Department of Neurology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India; Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, Swami 
Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (S-VYASA), Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
(5)MBBS, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, India.
(6)Department of Neurology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India. Electronic address: akshay1anand@rediffmail.com.

Exercise has been shown to have a positive impact on brain health including 
neuroprotective function. It has been demonstrated to increase the synthesis of 
neurotrophic factors, support neuronal survival, and improve neuroplasticity. 
Concurrently, neuregulin plays a vital role in the development, maintenance, and 
repair of both the central and peripheral nervous system. The link between 
exercise and neuregulin in mediating neuroprotection has been the subject of 
increased research to better understand the possible applications for the 
deterrence of neurodegenerative disorders. Understanding this link is of great 
interest because it has the potential to lead to new strategies for preventing 
or slowing the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. With an emphasis on 
exercise-induced neuregulin-mediated neuroprotection, this article reviews the 
literature on the neuroprotective effects of exercise and neuregulin. The 
synergistic effects of exercise and neuregulin on neuroprotection will be 
clarified and valuable insights will be gained from this review, with potential 
implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Huntington's disease 
(HD).

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115710
PMID: 40562281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


17. Neuropharmacology. 2025 Nov 1;278:110572. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110572.  Epub 2025 Jun 23.

Irisin ameliorates cognitive impairment in a lipopolysaccharide-induced 
neuroinflammation mouse model by inhibiting the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway in 
microglia.

Zhang DQ(1), Li G(2), Fu ZD(3), Huang YS(2), Feng XL(2), Chen LJ(3), Wang R(4), 
Zhao WJ(2), Li Q(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 570102, China; Key Laboratory of Emergency and Trauma of 
Ministry of Education, The First Affiliated Hospital, Hainan Medical University, 
Haikou, 570102, China; Key Laboratory of Brain Science Research & Transformation 
in Tropical Environment of Hainan Province, Haikou, 571199, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 570102, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 570102, China; Key Laboratory of Brain Science Research & 
Transformation in Tropical Environment of Hainan Province, Haikou, 571199, 
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Collaborative Innovation Center of One 
Health, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 570102, China; Key Laboratory of Brain Science Research & 
Transformation in Tropical Environment of Hainan Province, Haikou, 571199, 
China. Electronic address: lee-chief@163.com.

Neuroinflammation is implicated in the development of neurodegenerative 
diseases. Irisin was first identified as an exercise-induced skeletal 
muscle-secreted glycosylated protein. The main physiological functions of irisin 
were initially thought to include the promotion of angiogenesis; improvement of 
oxidative metabolism; and regulation of glucose, lipid, and mitochondrial 
metabolism. However, despite its demonstrated neuroprotective effects in 
Alzheimer's disease, the precise role of irisin in neuroinflammation, 
particularly in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cognitive impairment, remains 
unclear. This study was performed to investigate the protective effects and 
mechanisms of irisin on LPS-induced inflammatory cognitive impairment both in 
vivo and in vitro. We induced cognitive impairment in mice using LPS and 
evaluated cognitive function by employing the Morris water maze test. Further, 
we used immunofluorescence staining and flow cytometry to assess microglial 
activation and polarization in the cortex and hippocampus, two brain regions 
involved in cognitive behaviors. Western blotting was used to detect the levels 
of proteins related to the NLRP3 signaling pathway. Furthermore, we measured 
tumor necrosis factor -α, interleukin (IL)-6, CCL2, IL-4 and IL-10 levels in BV2 
cells using a mouse enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit and characterized M1 
and M2 polarization using flow cytometry. Irisin administration improved 
learning and cognitive abilities but inhibited microglial activation and M1 
polarization in LPS-treated mice. Irisin significantly decreased the expression 
of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathway molecules in LPS-treated mice. Further, 
irisin suppressed microglial activation and reduced the production of 
proinflammatory cytokines in BV2 cells. Moreover, irisin protected PC12 cells 
from LPS-activated BV2 microglia-induced neurotoxicity and inhibited apoptosis 
in PC12 cells induced by BV2 conditioned medium. Irisin mitigated inflammatory 
cognitive dysfunction and suppressed microglial activation and M1-type 
polarization by inhibiting the NLRP3 signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110572
PMID: 40562230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


18. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 5;1002:177875. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177875.
Epub  2025 Jun 23.

The potential mitigating effect of febuxostat alone or with donepezil on 
scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's disease in rats: The role of TXNIP/NLRP3 
inflammasome signaling pathway.

Taha DE(1), Kabel AM(2), Yassin AI(1), Abdin AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Tanta, 31527, 
Egypt.
(2)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Tanta, 31527, 
Egypt. Electronic address: ahmed.kabal@med.tanta.edu.eg.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a pervasive neurodegenerative disorder. 
Despite extensive research, its multifactorial etiology remains complex and not 
fully understood. The present study was performed to investigate the potential 
ameliorative effect of febuxostat and donepezil each alone or in combination on 
scopolamine-induced AD in male Wistar rats via targeting Thioredoxin-interacting 
protein (TXNIP)/NOD-like receptor protein-3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway.
METHODS: In a rat model of scopolamine-induced AD, the changes in the behavioral 
tests, biochemical parameters, and the histopathological picture in the 
hippocampal and cerebral tissues were assessed.
RESULTS: Administration of either donepezil or febuxostat to scopolamine-induced 
AD rats significantly improved the behavioral changes, decremented TXNIP levels 
with amelioration of the neuroinflammation by decreased NLRP3, and IL-1β levels, 
restoration of the oxidant/antioxidant balance and inhibition of apoptosis by 
increasing expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 with restoration of ACh 
levels. Notably, only febuxostat causes normalization of fasting blood glucose 
levels. These changes were positively reflected on the histopathological picture 
and scoring in both tissues. These beneficial effects were significantly more 
evidenced in rats treated with donepezil/febuxostat combination relative to 
monotherapy by either donepezil or febuxostat. The impact of the tested 
parameters in the disease outcome was evidenced by their significant correlation 
and moreover the causality by the significant regression, shedding light 
particularly for the glycemic state and the neuroinflammatory reactions.
CONCLUSION: These elaborated data signified the neuroprotective effect of 
febuxostat and indicated that donepezil/febuxostat combination strengthened each 
other as they act by different mechanisms to counteract AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177875
PMID: 40562196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


19. Cell Stem Cell. 2025 Aug 7;32(8):1299-1307.e8. doi:
10.1016/j.stem.2025.06.002.  Epub 2025 Jun 24.

ChemPerturb-seq screen identifies a small molecule cocktail enhancing human beta 
cell survival after subcutaneous transplantation.

Vandana JJ(1), Zhu J(2), Giani AM(3), Zhang T(4), Lacko LA(2), Leng D(2), Taylor 
DL(5), Lee BN(5), Han Z(6), Jiao T(6), Huang Y(6), Zhao M(6), Liu X(2), Chong 
ACN(2), Xue D(2), Meng Z(2), Xiang JZ(4), Pan C(4), Wang W(7), Naji A(7), Evans 
T(2), Liu J(6), Collins FS(5), Liu C(8), Chen S(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., New York, NY 
10065, USA; Center for Genomic Health, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., 
New York, NY 10065, USA; Tri-Institutional PhD Program in Chemical Biology, 
Weill Cornell Medicine, The Rockefeller University, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., New York, NY 
10065, USA; Center for Genomic Health, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., 
New York, NY 10065, USA.
(3)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Institute, Feil Family Brain and 
Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA.
(4)Genomic Resource Core Facility, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10065, 
USA.
(5)Center for Precision Health Research, National Human Genome Research 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(6)Department of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(7)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(8)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address: chliu@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(9)Department of Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., New York, NY 
10065, USA; Center for Genomic Health, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave., 
New York, NY 10065, USA. Electronic address: shc2034@med.cornell.edu.

Traditional chemical screens have focused on a single assay per screen, making 
them labor intensive and costly. Here, we combined a chemical screen with 
single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to perform Chemical Perturb-seq 
(ChemPerturb-seq), enabling a systematic analysis of the molecular changes of 
human beta cells upon individual small molecule treatments. Using this platform, 
we performed an in vivo barcoded screen and discovered a small molecule 
cocktail, including beta-lipotropin 61-91, insulin growth factor-1, and 
prostaglandin E2, with which preconditioning human beta cells and primary islets 
significantly enhanced function and survival when transplanted subcutaneously to 
female, but not to male, mice. We identified two additional molecules, serotonin 
and histamine, that promote islet function when transplanted subcutaneously to 
male mice using ChemPerturb-seq. Such small molecule cocktails could be applied 
to improve the current FDA-approved islet transplantation procedure. Finally, we 
developed an artificial intelligence (AI)-powered website, ChemPerturbDB, which 
provides user-friendly open access analysis of the extensive ChemPerturb-seq 
dataset.

Crown Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stem.2025.06.002
PMCID: PMC12335368
PMID: 40562034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S.C. and T.E. are the 
co-founders of Oncobeat, Inc. S.C. is the co-founder of iOrganBio, Inc.


20. J Nutr Health Aging. 2025 Aug;29(8):100615. doi: 10.1016/j.jnha.2025.100615. 
Epub 2025 Jun 24.

Green tea consumption and dementia risk in community-dwelling Japanese people 
aged 40-74 years: A 12-year cohort study.

Kaise R(1), Kitamura K(2), Watanabe Y(2), Kabasawa K(3), Takahashi A(4), Saito 
T(2), Kobayashi R(4), Oshiki R(4), Yamazaki O(5), Watanabe K(6), Takachi R(7), 
Tsugane S(8), Nakamura K(9).

Author information:
(1)Niigata University School of Medicine, Niigata, Japan.
(2)Division of Preventive Medicine, Niigata University Graduate School of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Promotion Medicine, Niigata University Graduate School 
of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Niigata University of Rehabilitation, Niigata, 
Japan.
(5)Niigata Prefectural Government, Niigata, Japan.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Niigata University Medical and Dental 
Hospital, Niigata, Japan.
(7)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Nara Women's University Graduate 
School of Humanities and Sciences, Nara, Japan.
(8)International University of Health and Welfare Graduate School of Public 
Health, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Division of Preventive Medicine, Niigata University Graduate School of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan. Electronic address: 
kazun@med.niigata-u.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: Green tea, like coffee, has been suggested to protect against 
dementia, but supporting evidence is lacking. The present study aimed to 
determine independent associations of green tea consumption with, and 
interactions of green tea and coffee consumption on, dementia risk in 
middle-aged and older people.
METHODS: The present study is a 12-year follow-up of the Murakami cohort study 
on age-related diseases. Participants were 13,660 (men, 6,573 [48.1%]; mean age, 
59.0 (SD = 9.3) years) community-dwelling residents aged 40-74 years. The 
baseline survey was conducted between 2011-2013. A self-administered 
questionnaire obtained information on predictors, including sex, age, marital 
status, education, occupation, body size, physical activity, smoking, alcohol, 
tea and coffee consumption, energy intake, and medical history. Green tea 
consumption was quantitatively determined with a validated questionnaire. Cases 
of incident dementia were identified using the long-term care insurance 
database.
RESULTS: Higher green tea consumption was associated with lower hazard ratios 
(HRs) for dementia (multivariable P for trend = 0.0178), with the highest 
quartile having a lower HR (adjusted HR = 0.75) than the lowest quartile. The 
adjusted HR for dementia by cup-based green tea consumption (1 cup = 150 mL) was 
0.952 (95%CI:0.92-0.99), corresponding to a 4.8% reduction per 1 cup increase. 
High consumption of both green tea and coffee was not associated with low 
dementia risk (P for interaction = 0.0210).
CONCLUSION: Higher consumption of green tea is independently associated with a 
lower risk of dementia. Although green tea was found to be beneficial, excessive 
consumption of both green tea and coffee is not recommended for the prevention 
of dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnha.2025.100615
PMCID: PMC12402371
PMID: 40561856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no competing interests.


21. Auton Neurosci. 2025 Aug;260:103315. doi: 10.1016/j.autneu.2025.103315. Epub 
2025 Jun 18.

Blunted pressor response to peripheral sensory afferent nerve stimulation in 
intracerebroventricular-streptozotocin injected rats.

Fukazawa A(1), Hotta N(2), Yeganehjoo H(3), Hori A(4), Kim HK(5), Iwamoto GA(6), 
Smith SA(7), Vongpatanasin W(8), Mizuno M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Clinical Research, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA; Japan Society for the Promotion of 
Science, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan. Electronic address: 
ayumi.fukazawa@utsouthwestern.edu.
(2)College of Life and Health Sciences, Chubu University, Kasugai 487-8501, 
Japan. Electronic address: horinori@isc.chubu.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Clinical Nutrition, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA. Electronic address: 
hoda.yeganehjoo@utsouthwestern.edu.
(4)Department of Applied Clinical Research, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA; Japan Society for the Promotion of 
Science, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan. Electronic address: 
amane.hori@utsouthwestern.edu.
(5)Department of Applied Clinical Research, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA; Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA. 
Electronic address: hankyul.kim@utsouthwestern.edu.
(6)Department of Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX 75390, USA. Electronic address: gary.iwamoto@utsouthwestern.edu.
(7)Department of Applied Clinical Research, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA. Electronic address: 
scott.smith@utsouthwestern.edu.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA. Electronic address: 
wanpen.vongpatanasin@utsouthwestern.edu.
(9)Department of Applied Clinical Research, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA. Electronic address: 
masaki.mizuno@utsouthwestern.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder. It is 
characterized by synaptic loss and the increase of amyloid β (Aβ) in the brain 
often detrimentally affecting function. Brainstem is the key central integration 
site for sensory input from working skeletal muscle. Stimulation of skeletal 
muscle afferent fibers during muscle contraction increases blood pressure. 
However, whether AD alters or preserves the central processing of peripheral 
sensory afferent signals remains to be elucidated. Thus, we tested the 
hypothesis that the magnitude of the pressor response is functionally altered in 
intracerebroventricular-streptozotocin injected rats (ICV-STZ). Streptozotocin 
(3 mg/kg) was intracerebroventricularly injected into the lateral ventricle of 
male Sprague-Dawley rats. In parallel, a separate group of rats were treated 
with ICV saline as a vehicle control. Spatial learning and memory function were 
assessed using the Morris Water Maze behavioral test. Results demonstrate that 
ICV-STZ rats had a significantly longer time to reach a target platform compared 
to controls (P = 0.0046). ICV-STZ injection also significantly increased 
brainstem Aβ1-40 (P = 0.0082), but not Aβ1-42 (P = 0.0744). Further, the peak 
pressor and cardioaccelerator responses to tibial nerve stimulation were 
significantly attenuated in ICV-STZ rats compared to controls (ΔMAP: P = 0.0003, 
ΔHR: P = 0.0035). The findings suggest that the cardiovascular responses to 
electrical stimulation of sensory afferents are blunted in ICV-STZ rats.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autneu.2025.103315
PMCID: PMC12400199
PMID: 40561701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


22. Neurology. 2025 Jul 22;105(2):e213770. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213770.
Epub  2025 Jun 25.

Cross-Sectional and Longitudinal Associations of Neighborhood Disadvantage With 
Fluid Biomarkers of Neuroinflammation and Neurodegeneration.

Gogniat MA(1)(2)(3), Khan OA(1)(4)(5), Ratangee B(1), Bolton CJ(1)(2)(6), Zhang 
P(1)(4), Liu D(1)(4), Pechman KR(1), Yates A(1)(7), Gaynor LS(1)(6), Eaton 
J(1)(2), Peterson A(1)(2), Gifford KA(1)(2)(8), Hohman TJ(1), Blennow K(9)(10), 
Zetterberg H(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14), Jefferson AL(1)(2)(15).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, TN.
(2)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN.
(5)Vanderbilt Brain Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.
(6)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(7)Interdisciplinary Materials Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.
(8)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University, MA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgreska Academy, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Clinical Neurochemistry Lab, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(11)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, United Kingdom.
(12)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(13)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, China.
(14)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison; and.
(15)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.

Erratum in
    Neurology. 2025 Oct 21;105(8):e214280. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000214280.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Living in a socioeconomically disadvantaged 
neighborhood has an adverse impact on health outcomes, including increased risk 
of Alzheimer disease (AD). The biological mechanisms underlying this risk are 
poorly understood. We sought to examine how neighborhood disadvantage relates to 
core AD pathology, neurodegeneration, and inflammatory biomarkers in 
community-dwelling older adults cross-sectionally and over time.
METHODS: Participants included older adults from the Vanderbilt Memory and Aging 
Project who underwent fasting blood and CSF acquisition serially over a 9-year 
follow-up period (mean follow-up = 6.4 years [blood] and 4.0 years [CSF]). Area 
Deprivation Index (ADI), representing neighborhood disadvantage, was quantified 
at baseline using 17 components (e.g., housing, income, education, and household 
characteristics), with higher values indicating greater disadvantage. Ordinary 
least-squares regressions cross-sectionally related ADI to plasma and CSF 
inflammatory biomarkers adjusting for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, 
modified Framingham Stroke Risk Profile score, APOE ε4 status, and cognitive 
status. Linear mixed-effects regression models related ADI to longitudinal 
biomarkers with identical covariates plus follow-up time. Outcomes included CSF 
chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40), CSF soluble-triggering receptor expressed 
on myeloid cells 2, CSF amyloid-β42 (Aβ42), CSF Aβ40/Aβ42 ratio, CSF tau, CSF 
phosphorylated tau (ptau), plasma high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP), and 
plasma and CSF neurofilament light chain.
RESULTS: Participants (n = 334; 73 ± 8 years old, 59% male, 86% White, 
non-Hispanic) on average were from relatively less disadvantaged neighborhoods 
(ADI national decile = 33 ± 25, range = 1-98). Greater neighborhood disadvantage 
at study entry was cross-sectionally associated with elevated CSF YKL-40 (β = 
0.7, p = 0.003) and tau (β = 1.8, p = 0.04) after excluding outliers. Greater 
neighborhood disadvantage at study entry related to faster longitudinal 
increases in plasma CRP (β = 0.005, p = 0.03).
DISCUSSION: Greater neighborhood disadvantage was associated with elevated 
inflammatory and AD CSF biomarkers cross-sectionally and longitudinal increases 
in a nonspecific inflammatory blood biomarker. Findings suggest that 
neighborhood disadvantage confers risk of systemic inflammation and AD 
pathology, providing a possible sociobiological mechanism underlying health 
disparities in aging adults; however, results were limited by use of ADI at 
study entry.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213770
PMCID: PMC12203597
PMID: 40561381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.J. Hohman serves on the scientific advisory 
board for Vivid Genomics. K. Blennow reports no disclosures relevant to this 
manuscript. H. Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). All other authors report no relevant 
disclosures. Go to Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


23. PLoS One. 2025 Jun 25;20(6):e0326568. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326568. 
eCollection 2025.

Seeding amplification assay with Universal Control Fluid: Standardized detection 
of α-synucleinopathies.

Bsoul R(1), Simonsen AH(2), Frederiksen KS(2)(3), Svenstrup K(4)(5), Bech S(4), 
Salvesen L(4), Hejl AM(4), Rossi M(6), Parchi P(6)(7), Lund EL(1)(3), 
Areškevičiūtė A(1).

Author information:
(1)Danish Reference Center for Prion Diseases, Department of Pathology, 
Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(4)Department of Neurology, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(7)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.

Seeding amplification assays, specifically the Real-Time Quaking-Induced 
Conversion method (RT-QuIC), have shown great diagnostic potential for 
α-synucleinopathies. Numerous research groups have demonstrated the method's 
high sensitivity and specificity using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples and 
various RT-QuIC workflows. However, establishing a uniform and stably performing 
RT-QuIC protocol remains challenging. To address this, we established an RT-QuIC 
protocol with a Universal Control Fluid (UCF), which is simple to adopt, 
performs stably, and allows uniform preparation of both sample and control 
reactions. Firstly, we adapted and established a published 48-hour RT-QuIC 
protocol, including the in-house production of recombinant α-synuclein (rec 
α-syn), and evaluated its sensitivity and specificity through a blinded 
screening of an 81 CSF sample cohort consisting of Parkinson's disease (PD), 
dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Alzheimer's disease, motor neuron disease, 
multiple system atrophy, unidentified neurodegenerative diseases, and healthy 
controls. Additionally, we tested all CSF samples in three volumes to determine 
which volume provides the best diagnostic accuracy. The established RT-QuIC 
performs nearly equally well with 7 µL and 15 µL added CSF, resulting in 94% and 
94.5% diagnostic accuracy, respectively. Secondly, we developed a UCF solution 
and tested its performance with the established RT-QuIC protocol. Results 
indicate that UCF, used in defined volume and concentration, standardizes the 
preparation of both sample and control reactions without compromising the 
assay's diagnostic accuracy and provides a stabilizing environment for the 
reactions, ensuring higher reproducibility. The established RT-QuIC protocol for 
pathologic α-synuclein detection in PD and DLB CSF samples is highly sensitive 
(92-96%) and specific (93-96%). Therefore, it is important that its adoption in 
clinical laboratories is uncomplicated and uniform. RT-QuIC with UCF simplifies, 
standardizes, and stabilizes the assay's performance and, thus, could be 
recommended as a standard protocol for accurate detection of 
α-synucleinopathies.

Copyright: © 2025 Bsoul et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326568
PMCID: PMC12194165
PMID: 40561143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: KSF serves as consultant and/or member of an 
advisory board for Novo Nordisk, Eisai/Bioarctic, Eli Lilly, Roche Diagnostics 
(Remuneration paid to institution) , serves (or has served) as Principal or 
Sub-investigator and National Coordinator on several industry-sponsored phase 2 
and 3 trials (indication Alzheimer´s disease): Roche, Roche Diagnostics, Biogen, 
NovoNordisk, Osuka, AbbVie (Remuneration paid to institution), serves on the 
Scientific advisory board (and as lecturer) on the MiCog educational program 
(supported by an unrestricted grant from Nestlé to the European Geriatric 
Medicines Society, personal remuneration), speaker and educational activities 
for Roche, Roche Diagnostics, Eisai/Bioarctic, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Lundbeck 
A/S (2023, 2024, 2025) (remuneration paid to institution), BestPractice Nordic, 
Alzheimerforeningen, Lundbeckfonden, Folkeuni-versitetet i Emdrup, Dagens 
medicin (2023, 2024, 2025) (Personal remuneration), serves as Editor-in-Chief 
for Alzheimer´s Research & Therapy Springer – Nature (from 2024 – 2023-2024 as 
Associate Editor) (Personal remuneration), receives royalties from publications 
with Springer-Nature and Hans Reitzels Forlag and has re-ceived funding or 
participated in research which has received funding from the following: 
Alzheimer Forsknings-fonden, Parkinsonforeningen, Aase og Ejner Danielsens Fond, 
KID fonden, Ellen Mørch Fonden, Jascha Fond-en, C2N, Overretssagfører L. 
Zeuthens Mindefond, Kong Christian den Tiendes Mindefond, Rigshospitalets 
Forskningspulje, Innovationsfonden, A.P. Møller fonden, ERA-PERMED, IHI, 
Hertzfonden, Harboefonden, Grosserer F.L.Foghts Fond, Fonden for Neurologisk 
Forskning, DANMODIS, Beckett fonden. Remaining authors have declared that no 
competing interests exist.


24. PLoS One. 2025 Jun 25;20(6):e0325441. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0325441. 
eCollection 2025.

Computer-aided discovery of dual-target compounds for Alzheimer's from ayurvedic 
medicinal plants.

Shah M(1)(2), Pervaiz S(1), Ahmad I(1), Ansari SH(1), Junior VFP(3), Ahmed S(1), 
Khan MU(4), Fawy KF(5)(6), Nishan U(7), Dib H(8), Abdelfattah MAO(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Federal University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Brazil.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Postgraduate Program in Veterinary Sciences, 
State University of Ceara, Fortaleza, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, The University of Lahore, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(5)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi 
Arabia.
(6)Research Center for Advanced Materials Science (RCAMS), King Khalid 
University, AlQura'a, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Kohat University of Science & Technology, Kohat, 
Pakistan.
(8)College of Engineering and Technology, American University of the Middle 
East, Kuwait.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline, driven by the accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles. It involves the dysfunction of key enzymes such as 
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and β-secretase (BACE1), making them critical 
targets for therapeutic intervention. In this study we investigated an in-house 
library of 820 secondary metabolites obtained from Ayurvedic plants against AChE 
and BACE1 with the aim to discover novel leads for AD. Virtual screening 
resulted in 15 ligands, mostly belonging to the ursane-type or dammarene-type 
triterpene saponins of Centella asiatica, reestablishing the potency of this 
plant in drug discovery against AD. The binding affinities were further verified 
by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation trajectories, including root mean square 
fluctuations (RMSF), root mean square deviation (RMSD), hydrogen bonding 
analysis, Coulomb interaction calculation, Lennard-Jones interactions, and the 
total interaction energy. Moreover, extensive Principal Component Analysis (PCA) 
and Gibbs free energy landscape were performed. Our results demonstrated three 
compounds, namely (S)-eriodictyol 
7-O-(6-β-O-trans-p-coumaroyl)-β-d-glucopyranoside, sitoindoside-X and 
1,5-di-o-caffeoyl quinic acid as more effective in treating AD due to their 
comparable drug-like properties. Drug-likeness, structural chemistry, 
pharmacophore, and ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and 
Toxicity) analysis support their potential for future drug development. To 
establish the effectiveness of these lead compounds against AD, additional 
experimental testing should be performed.

Copyright: © 2025 Shah et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0325441
PMCID: PMC12193798
PMID: 40560959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


25. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 2025 Jun 25. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-pharmtox-062124-113434. Online ahead of print.

A Change of Mind: Targeting Amyloid-β with Better Safety Profile.

Krick KE(1), Wilcock DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA; email: krickk@iu.edu, dwilcock@iu.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease that leads to 
cognitive decline and dementia. Over the past two decades, many scientists have 
contributed to the discovery of therapeutics that target amyloid-beta (Aβ) to 
slow the progression of AD. These discoveries have led to the development of the 
first disease-modifying therapeutics in AD, though these come with the risk of 
side effects known as amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA). There are 
currently many exciting studies and trials working to mitigate ARIA risk that 
range from modifying antibodies to potential combination therapeutics. This 
review addresses some of the ongoing research areas for improving safety in Aβ 
targeting as well as clinical considerations for current patient treatment.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-pharmtox-062124-113434
PMID: 40560947


26. Am J Manag Care. 2025 Jun;31(Spec. No. 6):SP312-SP321. doi: 
10.37765/ajmc.2025.89755.

Factors associated with unplanned admissions among patients with chronic 
conditions.

Gottlieb M(1), Golovashkina N, Stein BD, Casey P, Walker G, Thompson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, 1750 W 
Harrison St, Ste 108 Kellogg, Chicago, IL 60612. Email: 
MichaelGottliebMD@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: Value-based care models, such as the Medicare Shared Savings 
Program, have placed increasing emphasis on unplanned admissions among patients 
with multiple chronic conditions (UAMCCs) as a quality metric. However, there 
are limited data on which factors are associated with the highest risk of 
UAMCCs. This study sought to determine which factors were associated with 
increased risk of UAMCCs.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study conducted among all adult patients with 2 or 
more chronic conditions defined by CMS presenting to 2 hospitals within a major 
Midwest health care system from November 1, 2022, to October 31, 2023.
METHODS: Demographics, chronic conditions, primary care physician (PCP) visit 
utilization, and annual wellness visit (AWV) utilization were analyzed using 
multivariable logistic regression to identify associations with UAMCCs.
RESULTS: Among 18,448 patients (55.8% women) included in the study, 3842 (20.8%) 
had at least 1 UAMCC. Patients with UAMCCs were more likely to have Medicare or 
Medicaid insurance; be widowed; speak Spanish; have a higher Charlson 
Comorbidity Index score; and have Alzheimer disease, atrial fibrillation, heart 
failure, chronic kidney disease, depression, chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, and/or stroke. When examining PCP visit measures, AWVs and having 1 or 
more PCP visits were associated with fewer UAMCCs.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher Charlson Comorbidity Index scores, several health 
conditions, and Spanish language were associated with increased UAMCCs. AWVs and 
having 1 or more PCP visits were associated with fewer UAMCCs.

DOI: 10.37765/ajmc.2025.89755
PMID: 40560635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Neurol. 2025 Jun 25;272(7):478. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13201-1.

Regional free-water diffusion is more strongly related to neuroinflammation than 
neurodegeneration.

Sumra V(1)(2), Hadian M(3)(4), Dilliott AA(5)(6), Farhan SMK(5)(6), Frank 
AR(7)(8), Lang AE(9)(3)(10)(11), Roberts AC(12)(13), Troyer A(14), Arnott 
SR(15), Marras C(4)(10), Tang-Wai DF(4)(16), Finger E(17), Rogaeva E(9), Orange 
JB(18), Ramirez J(19)(20), Zinman L(11)(19), Binns M(21), Borrie M(12)(22), 
Freedman M(14)(15), Ozzoude M(9)(23), Bartha R(24), Swartz RH(20), Munoz D(25), 
Masellis M(26), Black SE(19), Dixon RA(27)(28), Dowlatshahi D(7), Grimes D(29), 
Hassan A(30), Hegele RA(22)(31), Kumar S(32), Pasternak S(24), Pollock B(18), 
Rajji T(32), Sahlas D(33), Saposnik G(25), Tartaglia MC(34)(9)(3)(11); ONDRI 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Cir Suite 2374, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada. 
Vishaal.sumra@mail.utoronto.ca.
(2)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Medical Sciences Building, 1 King's College Cir Suite 2374, Toronto, 
ON, M5S 1A8, Canada. Vishaal.sumra@mail.utoronto.ca.
(3)Krembil Brain Institute, 135 Nassau St, Toronto, ON, M5T 1M8, Canada.
(4)University Health Network, 190 Elizabeth St, Toronto, ON, M5G 2C4, Canada.
(5)Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, 3801 Rue University, Montréal, 
QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, 3801 Rue 
University, Montréal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(7)University of Ottawa, 75 Laurier Ave E, Ottawa, ON, K1N 6N5, Canada.
(8)Bruyere Research Institute, 85 Primrose Ave, Ottawa, ON, K1R 6M1, Canada.
(9)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Medical Sciences Building, 1 King's College Cir Suite 2374, Toronto, 
ON, M5S 1A8, Canada.
(10)Movement Disorder Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health 
Network, 399 Bathurst St, Toronto, ON, M5T 2S8, Canada.
(11)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 27 King's College Cir, Toronto, 
ON, M5S 1A1, Canada.
(12)Western University, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(13)Canadian Centre for Activity and Aging, Western University, 1201 Western Rd, 
London, ON, N6G 1H1, Canada.
(14)Baycrest Health Sciences Centre, 3560 Bathurst St, Toronto, ON, M6A 2E1, 
Canada.
(15)Baycrest Hospital, 3560 Bathurst St, Toronto, ON, M6A 2E1, Canada.
(16)Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Cir, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada.
(17)Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, University of Western Ontario, 
1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(18)School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, University of Western 
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(19)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Ave, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, 
Canada.
(20)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, 2075 Bayview 
Ave, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada.
(21)Rotman Research Institute, 3560 Bathurst St, Toronto, ON, M6A 2E1, Canada.
(22)Schulich School of Medicine& Dentistry, Division of Geriatric Medicine, 
Western University, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(23)LC Campbell Cognitive Neurology Research Unit, Sunnybrook Research 
Institute, University of Toronto, 2075 Bayview Ave, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, 
Canada.
(24)Robarts Research Institute, Western University, 1151 Richmond St, London, 
ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(25)Unity Health Toronto, 61 Queen St E, Toronto, ON, M5C 2T2, Canada.
(26)Sunnybrook Research Institute, 2075 Bayview Ave, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, 
Canada.
(27)Department of Psychology Science, University of Alberta, 116 St & 85 Ave, 
Edmonton, AB, T6G 2R3, Canada.
(28)Neuroscience and Mental Health Institute, University of Alberta, 116 St & 85 
Ave, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2R3, Canada.
(29)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, 1053 Carling Ave, Ottawa, ON, K1Y 4E9, 
Canada.
(30)Northern Ontario School of Medicine, 935 Ramsey Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON, P3E 
2C6, Canada.
(31)Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 3K7, Canada.
(32)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 1000 Queen St W, Toronto, ON, M6J 
1H4, Canada.
(33)McMaster University, 1280 Main St W, Hamilton, ON, L8S 4L8, Canada.
(34)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Cir Suite 2374, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Recent research has suggested that neuroinflammation may be 
important in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Free-water 
diffusion (FWD) has been proposed as a non-invasive neuroimaging-based biomarker 
for neuroinflammation.
METHODS: Free-water maps were generated using diffusion MRI data in 367 patients 
from the Ontario Neurodegenerative Disease Research Initiative (108 Alzheimer's 
Disease/Mild Cognitive Impairment, 42 Frontotemporal Dementia, 37 Amyotrophic 
Lateral Sclerosis, 123 Parkinson's Disease, and 58 vascular disease-related 
Cognitive Impairment). The ability of FWD to predict neuroinflammation and 
neurodegeneration from biofluids was estimated using plasma glial 
fibrillary-associated protein (GFAP) and neurofilament light chain (NfL), 
respectively.
RESULTS: Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) performed the strongest out of all 
feature selection algorithms used and revealed regional specificity for areas 
that are the most important features for predicting GFAP over NfL concentration. 
Deep learning models using selected features and demographic information 
revealed better prediction of GFAP over NfL.
DISCUSSION: Based on feature selection and deep learning methods, FWD was found 
to be more strongly related to GFAP concentration (measure of astrogliosis) over 
NfL (measure of neuro-axonal damage), across neurodegenerative disease groups, 
in terms of predictive performance. Non-invasive markers of neurodegeneration 
such as MRI structural imaging that can reveal neurodegeneration already exist, 
while non-invasive markers of neuroinflammation are not available. Our results 
support the use of FWD as a non-invasive neuroimaging-based biomarker for 
neuroinflammation.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13201-1
PMID: 40560468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships, none of which 
conflict with the work presented herein: E.F. received personal compensation for 
serving on a PSP scientific advisory board for Biogen, as a section editor for 
NeuroImage Clinical, and as a course director for the AAN annual meeting. M.F. 
is listed on a patent related to methods and kits for differential diagnosis of 
AD vs FTD using blood biomarkers. D.G. reports honorariums from Sunovion and 
Paladin Labs Inc. as well as clinical trials with CIHR, Genzyme 
Corporation/Sanofi Canada, and Eli Lilly and Company. A.E.L. reports consultancy 
support from Abbvie, Acorda, AFFiRis, Biogen, Denali, Janssen, Intracellular, 
Kallyope, Lundbeck, Paladin, Retrophin, Roche, Sun Pharma, Theravance, and 
Corticobasal Degeneration Solutions; advisory board support form Jazz Pharma, 
PhotoPharmics, Sunovion; other honoraria from Sun Pharma, AbbVie, Sunovion, 
American Academy of Neurology and the International Parkinson and Movement 
Disorder Society; grants from Brain Canada, Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research, Corticobasal Degeneration Solutions, Edmond J Safra Philanthropic 
Foundation, Michael J. Fox Foundation, the Ontario Brain Institute, Parkinson 
Foundation, Parkinson Canada, and W. Garfield Weston Foundation and royalties 
from Elsevier, Saunders, Wiley-Blackwell, Johns Hopkins Press, and Cambridge 
University Press. M.M. receives salary support from the Department of Medicine 
at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, the University of Toronto, and the 
Sunnybrook Research Institute, as well as advisory board support from Arkuda 
Therapeutics, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Alector and Wave Life Sciences; royalties 
from Henry Stewart Talks Ltd; grants paid to institution from Weston Brain 
Institute, Ontario Brain Institute, Washington University and Canadian 
Institutes of Health Research outside the submitted work; and clinical trials 
support from Roche and Alector. G.S. is the Editor-in-Chief of the World Stroke 
Academy for the World Stroke Organization and receives CME honorarium from 
Servier and Roche, as well as grants from Roche. M.C.T. receives consultancy 
support from Biogen and Hoffman-La Roche and is a board member of Alzheimer’s 
Society of Toronto. The remaining authors declare no competing interests. 
Consent statement: All human subjects included in this study have provided 
informed consent, in keeping with institutional review board guidelines at all 
research sites involved with the Ontario Neurodegenerative Disease Research 
Initiative.


28. Mol Biol Rep. 2025 Jun 25;52(1):636. doi: 10.1007/s11033-025-10752-4.

Phytochemicals as modulators of ferroptosis: a novel therapeutic avenue in 
cancer and neurodegeneration.

Alum EU(1)(2), Akwari AA(3)(4), Okoroh PN(5)(6), Aniokete UC(7)(8), Abba 
JN(5)(9), Uti DE(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Publications, Kampala International University, P. 
O. Box 20000, Kampala, Uganda. esther.alum@kiu.ac.ug.
(2)Department of Biochemsitry, Faculty of Science, Ebonyi State University, 
Abakaliki, Nigeria. esther.alum@kiu.ac.ug.
(3)Department of Physiology, David Umahi Federal University of Health Sciences, 
Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(4)International Institute for Human Organ Research and Replacement Therapy, 
David Umahi Federal University of Health Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Medical Biochemistry, David Umahi Federal University of Health 
Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(6)International Institute for Biomedical, Tissue Engineering and Regenerative 
Medicine Research, David Umahi Federal University of Health Sciences, Uburu, 
Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, David Umahi Federal University of 
Health Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(8)International Institute for Infectious Diseases, Biosafety and Biosecurity, 
David Umahi Federal University of Health Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(9)International Institute for Pharmaceutical and Toxicology, David Umahi 
Federal University of Health Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
(10)Department of Research and Publications, Kampala International University, 
P. O. Box 20000, Kampala, Uganda.
(11)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Federal 
University of Health Sciences, Otukpo, Benue State, Nigeria.

Ferroptosis, a controlled cell death mechanism characterised by iron-dependent 
lipid peroxidation, has become a significant factor in the pathophysiology of 
cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. Its dual role as a tumor suppressor and 
mediator of neuronal damage highlights its significance as a therapeutic target. 
Phytochemicals, natural bioactive molecules in plants, have attracted interest 
for their ability to modulate ferroptosis through diverse mechanisms, including 
regulation of oxidative stress, iron metabolism, and antioxidant defense 
systems. This review examines the complex relationship between ferroptosis and 
disease mechanisms, emphasizing its relevance in treatment-resistant cancers and 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. 
Information was taken from reputable databases such as PubMed, Scopus, and Web 
of Science. We thoroughly analyzed the current evidence on 
phytochemicals-including polyphenols like curcumin and epigallocatechin gallate, 
flavonoids like quercetin and luteolin, and alkaloids like berberine-as 
modulators of ferroptotic pathways. Despite their promising therapeutic 
potential, challenges such as limited bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, and 
clinical validation remain significant hurdles. Future research focusing on 
advanced delivery systems, synergistic approaches, and personalized medicine 
strategies could unlock the full potential of phytochemicals in 
ferroptosis-targeted therapies. This review underscores phytochemicals as a 
novel and versatile avenue in addressing the unmet therapeutic needs in cancer 
and neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-025-10752-4
PMID: 40560244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: Not applicable.


29. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):512-517. doi: 10.1177/13872877251342266.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Posterior cortical atrophy in the age of anti-amyloid treatments: An 11-year 
retrospective study of eligible patients from the Leenaards Memory Center.

Salvioni Chiabotti P(1), Nasuti M(1), Rouaud O(1), Allali G(1).

Author information:
(1)Leenaards Memory Center, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne 
University Hospital and University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

At the era of the anti-amyloid treatments (AAT), it is striking to note 
posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) cases, the most predictive phenotype of 
Alzheimer's disease neuropathology, have not been explicitly included or 
excluded from clinical trials. In a retrospective analysis of the Leenaards 
Memory Center registry, we identified 41 PCA cases and, applying the recent 
appropriate use recommendations for lecanemab, estimate high (20%) eligibility 
rate, that doubles in pure PCA phenotypes with biomarker work-up available 
(40%). This high proportion of PCA patients eligible for AAT should prompt a 
timely exploration to assess inclusion/exclusion criteria for these novel 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251342266
PMCID: PMC12227803
PMID: 40560181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data availability 
statementThe data supporting the findings of this study are available on request 
from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to 
privacy or ethical restrictions.


30. Neurol Int. 2025 Jun 14;17(6):92. doi: 10.3390/neurolint17060092.

Global Diseases Deserve Global Solutions: Alzheimer's Disease.

Twiss E(1), McPherson C(2), Weaver DF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON M5T 0S8, 
Canada.
(2)Lakeridge Health, Oshawa, ON L1G 8A2, Canada.
(3)Departments of Medicine (Neurology) and Chemistry, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a global issue, with increasing incidence and 
prevalence as the world's population ages and life expectancy increases. 
Projections indicate that by 2050, over 150 million individuals worldwide will 
be personally living with AD, an impending crisis made worse by the absence of 
cure therapies. Moreover, the risk factor relationship of dementia with rising 
global temperatures and air pollution further necessitates the urgency of a 
coordinated international response. With an extensive economic and emotional 
burden, AD is no longer just a disease; it is a worldwide societal crisis. This 
review presents five calls to action to address the AD global health emergency. 
First, AD research must be approached as an internationally performed activity, 
involving standardized data sharing, collaborative innovation, and improved 
access to pharmaceutical studies in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), 
alongside increased diversity, inclusion, and equity in research. Second, there 
must be a commitment to develop universally accessible, affordable, and 
non-invasive diagnostic tools for AD. Third, advancements in AD therapeutics 
should prioritize the development of affordable agents, allowing for widespread 
geographic distribution. Fourth, we identify focus areas for global dementia 
risk reduction: sleep, head injury prevention, exercise, learning, and diet 
(SHIELD risk reduction strategy). Fifth, improving care for individuals with AD 
requires eliminating stigma through educational programs for both the public and 
caregivers. The escalating AD crisis demands an unprecedented global coalition 
in research, diagnostics, therapeutics, prevention, and education to avoid a 
future where the disease becomes the defining crisis of our era.

DOI: 10.3390/neurolint17060092
PMCID: PMC12196516
PMID: 40559330

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


31. Neurol Int. 2025 May 24;17(6):81. doi: 10.3390/neurolint17060081.

Reciprocal Interactions Between Periodontal Disease and Alzheimer's Disease: 
Implications for Mutual Triggering, Exacerbation, and Treatment Interventions-A 
Comprehensive Review of the Literature.

Gharaibeh S(1)(2)(3), Alsabbah A(2)(3), Alloubani A(2)(3), Gharaibeh A(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Periodontics, Ministry of Health, Amman 11118, Jordan.
(2)Insight Research Institute, Flint, MI 48507, USA.
(3)Center for Cognition and Neuroethics, University of Michigan-Flint, Flint, MI 
48502, USA.
(4)Insight Institute of Neurosurgery & Neuroscience, Flint, MI 48507, USA.
(5)Insight Hospital and Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60616, USA.

Periodontal health is connected to many systemic diseases, such as 
cardiovascular, diabetes mellitus, and neurodegenerative diseases. The 
oral-brain axis has gained increasing interest in the pathogenesis of diseases. 
Emerging studies have highlighted the potential role of periodontal disease in 
the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease. However, Alzheimer's 
disease also affects periodontal disease and oral health. In this review, we 
address the correlation between the two diseases and the mechanisms by which one 
contributes to the other. Exploring the correlation between Alzheimer's disease 
and periodontal disease will assist in better understanding the pathophysiology 
of diseases and pave the way for the development of therapeutic and preventive 
strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/neurolint17060081
PMCID: PMC12196369
PMID: 40559320

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


32. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2025 Jun 12;15(12):914. doi: 10.3390/nano15120914.

(Alkyl-ω-ol)triphenyltin(IV)-Loaded Mesoporous Silica as Biocompatible Potential 
Neuroprotectors: Evaluation of Inhibitory Activity Against Enzymes Associated 
with the Pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease.

Milisavljević K(1)(2), Milanović Ž(1), Matić J(1)(3), Antonijević M(1), Simić 
V(1), Milošević M(1)(4), Kosanić M(3), Kaluđerović GN(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Information Technologies, University of Kragujevac, Jovana 
Cvijića bb, 34000 Kragujevac, Serbia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Kragujevac, Radoja 
Domanovića 12, 34000 Kragujevac, Serbia.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Kragujevac, Radoja 
Domanovića 12, 34000 Kragujevac, Serbia.
(4)Faculty of Information Technology, Belgrade Metropolitan University, Tadeuša 
Koćuška 63, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(5)Department of Engineering and Natural Sciences, University of Applied 
Sciences Merseburg, Eberhard-Leibnitz-Straße 2, 06217 Merseburg, Germany.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by synaptic dysfunction and neuronal loss due to the accumulation 
of amyloid-β peptides and tau proteins. In the pursuit of novel neuroprotective 
strategies, organotin(IV) compounds have garnered attention due to their unique 
chemical and biological properties. This study evaluates the inhibitory 
potential of two triphenyltin(IV) derivatives-(3-propan-1-ol)triphenyltin(IV) 
(Ph3SnL1) and (4-butan-1-ol)triphenyltin(IV) (Ph3SnL2)-in both free form and 
immobilized into mesoporous silica SBA-15~Cl, targeting acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE), a key enzyme involved in AD pathophysiology. The SBA-15~Cl|Ph3SnL2 
nanostructures exhibited the most potent inhibitory activity against AChE (IC50 
= 0.58 μM), significantly outperforming the standard drug galantamine. Molecular 
docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and MM/GBSA and MM/PBSA analyses 
confirmed the stability and selectivity of interactions with AChE, primarily 
driven by hydrophobic interactions. Compound transport was also simulated using 
a multi-scale 3D mouse brain model to evaluate brain tissue distribution and 
blood-brain barrier permeability. The results highlight the strong potential of 
SBA-15-loaded organotin(IV) compounds as biocompatible neuroprotective agents 
for novel treatments of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/nano15120914
PMCID: PMC12195829
PMID: 40559280

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


33. NeuroSci. 2025 Jun 17;6(2):56. doi: 10.3390/neurosci6020056.

Commentary: Treating Diseases from Alzheimer's to Parkinson's Using Transcranial 
Pulse Stimulation: Mechanistic Insights, Recent Evidence, and Ethical 
Considerations.

Wojtecki L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Neuroscience and Medical Psychology, Medical Faculty, 
Heinrich Heine University, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology and Neurorehabilitation, Hospital Zum Heiligen Geist, 
Academic Teaching Hospital of the Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf, 47906 
Kempen, Germany.

Transcranial pulse stimulation (TPS) is a non-invasive neuromodulation method 
that uses, high-intensity acoustic shockwaves to deliver focused mechanical 
stimulation to neural tissue with minimal thermal effects. The mechanism of 
action includes but is not limited to promotion of blood flow and angiogenesis 
through mechanotransduction. Clinical data to date are limited and preliminary. 
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), TPS has demonstrated cognitive and mood 
improvements in pilot studies and secondary endpoint analysis in first 
randomized trials. The enhancement of gamma-band oscillations and network 
connectivity has been reported. Clinical observations in Parkinson's disease 
(PD) suggest TPS as a hypothesis-generating approach to address non-motor 
symptoms-such as depression, cognitive decline, and the freezing of gait-through 
theoretical modulation of basal ganglia-cortical circuits. TPS is CE-marked in 
Europe for AD and shows a favorable safety profile; however, ethical 
considerations arise from the limited evidence base, potential impairment of 
patient autonomy and judgment in dementia, and the risk of withholding 
established treatments. TPS should only be offered under structured scientific 
protocols or within patient registries to ensure rigorous oversight. Ensuring 
that consent processes account for cognitive capacity, and that TPS is applied 
as adjunct rather than replacement therapy, is paramount. Future research must 
include large-scale randomized controlled trials (RCTs), standardize stimulation 
protocols, deepen mechanistic insight, and embed robust ethical frameworks.

DOI: 10.3390/neurosci6020056
PMCID: PMC12195775
PMID: 40559217

Conflict of interest statement: Lars Wojtecki has received consulting honoraria, 
travel payments, and research funding from Storz Medical, the manufacturer of 
the TPS device.


34. NeuroSci. 2025 Jun 4;6(2):51. doi: 10.3390/neurosci6020051.

Emerging Therapies for Neurological Disorders: A Clinical Review of MANAGED 
(Music, Art, Nature-Based, Animal-Assisted, Game, Essential Oil, Dance) Care.

Lee AW(1), Hirani R(1)(2), Ogulnick J(3), Tiwari RK(1)(2), Etienne M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, New York Medical College, Valhalla 10595 NY, USA.
(2)Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, New York Medical College, Valhalla 
10595 NY, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Renaissance School of Medicine, Stony Brook 
University, Stony Brook 11794 NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, New York Medical College, Valhalla 10595 NY, USA.

In the face of the limitations in pharmacological and surgical interventions for 
neurological conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease, patients 
are increasingly turning to non-pharmacological and alternative therapies to 
manage their symptoms and improve their quality of life. This shift underscores 
the urgent need for accessible, effective, and affordable treatments. This 
literature review examines a range of alternative and personalized therapies, 
including game therapy, animal-assisted therapy, dance therapy, art therapy, 
music therapy, aroma therapy, and shinrin-yoku therapy. These modalities have 
demonstrated promising results in mitigating symptoms and enhancing well-being 
among individuals grappling with neurological disorders. Moreover, these 
therapies offer a holistic approach that complements traditional medical 
interventions, underscoring the importance of integrating diverse treatment 
modalities. Despite their historical roots in non-clinical settings, their 
potential in modern clinical practice remains untapped. The findings suggest the 
necessity for further research, particularly large cohort studies, to validate 
the efficacy of these personalized therapies and advocate for their widespread 
adoption. In an era marked by escalating healthcare costs, the exploration of 
alternative therapies presents a compelling avenue for enhancing patient care 
while simultaneously addressing economic challenges within the healthcare 
system.

DOI: 10.3390/neurosci6020051
PMCID: PMC12196375
PMID: 40559212

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


35. NeuroSci. 2025 Jun 3;6(2):50. doi: 10.3390/neurosci6020050.

Isoforms of Phosphorylated Tau as Potential Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease: 
The Contribution of Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics.

Agostini M(1), Traldi P(1), Hamdan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ricerca Pediatrica Città della Speranza, Corso Stati Uniti 4, 
35100 Padova, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, 
heterogeneous at the molecular level and characterized by diverse and complex 
pathological features. Such features are known to accumulate silently in the 
brain over years or even decades before the onset of detectable symptoms. 
Despite long years of intense research activities, the disease remains orphaned 
of either disease-modifying therapies or a specific blood test capable of 
predicting the disease in the pre-symptomatic stages. This disappointing outcome 
of such efforts can be attributed to a number of factors. One of these factors 
is the failure of earlier research to capture the heterogeneity of the disease. 
Such failure has the direct consequence of poor patient stratification, which in 
turn impacts negatively on the development of specific and effective therapy. 
The second factor is the absence of detailed and accurate information on 
proteins and associated post-translational modifications, which may influence 
the initiation and progress of the disease. Recent studies have demonstrated 
that the quantification of various isoforms of phosphorylated tau protein in 
plasma and other biofluids can be considered as potential biomarkers for the 
early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics and 
immunoassay-based multiplex proteomics are the two technologies in current use 
for probing the human proteome, both in tissues and biofluids. In the present 
review, we discuss the contribution of MS-based proteomics to efforts aimed at 
the identification and eventual characterization of the heterogeneity of the 
disease, and the key role of the same technique in the analysis of protein 
post-translational modifications associated with the disease is also discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/neurosci6020050
PMCID: PMC12196459
PMID: 40559211

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to be 
declared.


36. NeuroSci. 2025 May 23;6(2):46. doi: 10.3390/neurosci6020046.

Meta-Analysis of Exercise Effects on Cognition in Persons with Parkinson's 
Disease.

Ahmad SO(1)(2), Stiles D(3), Brown K(1), Dillon L(1), Shroba E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy, Neuroscience 
Core Faculty, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, MO 63103, USA.
(2)Virginia Gore NeuroOccupation Lab, Inc., St. Louis, MO 63017, USA.
(3)Office of Institutional Research, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, MO 
63103, USA.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative 
disorder affecting millions of people worldwide. PD results in motor and 
cognitive dysfunction. While there is no proven cure for PD, it is widely agreed 
that aerobic exercises and occupations can help slow the progression of the 
disease and keep some motor-related symptoms from developing. The most effective 
forms of exercise to slow the progression of motor symptoms in Parkinson's 
disease have also been studied.
RESEARCH QUESTION: This research article aims to compare the differences in 
outcomes of exercise on cognitive outcomes in Parkinson's Disease, as evaluated 
by meta-analysis.
METHODS: Key terms were Parkinson's Disease and exercise terms. These search 
terms were then entered to electronic databases-Ovid MEDLINE, SCOPUS, and 
CINAHL-from March 2018 to May 2023. An ancestral bibliography was also 
performed.
RESULTS: Two reviewers screened the title and abstract records (n = 528) found 
in the initial search. Our review identified 18 studies which met inclusion 
criteria for meta-analysis. The meta-analysis found an effect of exercise on 
cognition of patients with PD (d = -0.03) which was not significant (CI95% of 
-0.13 < µ < 0.08; p > 0.05, as the CI includes zero). Additionally, the 
homogeneity analysis was not significant (Q (17) = 2.83; p > 0.05).

DOI: 10.3390/neurosci6020046
PMCID: PMC12195965
PMID: 40559207

Conflict of interest statement: Syed O. Ahmad is from Virginia Gore 
NeuroOccupation Lab, Inc. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The company had no role in the 
design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in 
the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


37. Phytother Res. 2025 Jun 25. doi: 10.1002/ptr.70006. Online ahead of print.

Notoginsenoside R1, a Novel Natural PPARγ Agonist, Attenuates Cognitive Deficits 
in a Mouse Model of Diabetic Alzheimer's Disease Through Enhancing 
GLUT4-Dependent Neuronal Glucose Uptake.

Li Z(1), Zhang Y(1), Su R(1), Yang J(1), Chen F(1), Chen L(1), Yao C(1), Li 
S(1), Cui P(2), Meng X(1), Huang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Neurosurgery, Shenzhen 
Institute of Translational Medicine, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen, China.

Our previous studies demonstrated the potential of notoginsenoside R1 (NGR1), a 
primary bioactive compound from Panax notoginseng, in alleviating diabetic 
encephalopathy in db/db mice and mitigating amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced neuronal 
damage. This study aimed to investigate the positive effects of NGR1 against 
cognitive deficits in a diabetic Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model 
(APP/PS1xdb/db mice). APP/PS1xdb/db mice were intragastrically administrated 
with NGR1 (40 mg/kg/day) or co-administrated with NGR1 and a selective PPARγ 
inhibitor GW9662 for 16 weeks. We identified NGR1 as a novel PPARγ agonist 
through molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance, and dual-luciferase 
reporter assay. NGR1 treatment significantly promoted the membrane translocation 
of GLUT4 and enhanced 2-deoxyglucose uptake in primary mouse hippocampal 
neurons. Furthermore, NGR1 treatment notably mitigated cognitive deficits in 
APP/PS1xdb/db mice. This treatment correlated with reduced blood glucose levels, 
lowered blood HbA1c, and decreased serum insulin levels, coupled with enhanced 
glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Additionally, NGR1 treatment 
ameliorated Aβ burden, suppressed microglia-induced neuroinflammation, and 
notably increased cerebral glucose uptake, as demonstrated by 18F-FDG PET scans. 
NGR1 treatment could upregulate PPARγ and GLUT4 expression and increase 
phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 while decreasing phosphorylation of IRS-1 at 
Ser616 in the hippocampus of APP/PS1xdb/db mice. Crucially, the protective 
effects of NGR1 were abolished by co-administration with GW9662. NGR1 
demonstrated efficacy in enhancing neuronal glucose uptake through the 
activation of the PPARγ/Akt/GLUT4 signaling pathways in APP/PS1xdb/db mice, 
positioning it as a promising candidate for diabetic AD treatment.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.70006
PMID: 40559126


38. Cells. 2025 Jun 19;14(12):934. doi: 10.3390/cells14120934.

Investigating the Synergistic Neuroprotective Effects of Plant-Derived 
Antioxidants and the Psychedelic N,N-Dimethyltryptamine in Alzheimer's Disease 
Therapy.

Jarne-Ferrer J(1), Pallàs M(1)(2), Griñán-Ferré C(1)(2), Bellver-Sanchis A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Institut de 
Neurociències, Universitat de Barcelona, Avda. Joan XXIII, 27, 08028 Barcelona, 
Spain.
(2)Spanish Biomedical Research Center in Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid, Spain.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic and complex neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by progressive cognitive decline, memory loss, and irreversible 
impairment of brain functions. The etiology of AD is multifactorial, involving a 
complex interplay of genetic, environmental, and physiological factors, 
including the aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and oxidative stress (OS). The role 
of OS in AD pathogenesis is of particular significance, given that an imbalance 
between oxidants and antioxidants promotes cellular damage, exacerbates Aβ 
deposition, and leads to cognitive deterioration. Despite extensive research, 
current therapeutic strategies have largely failed, likely due to the use of 
single-target drugs unable to halt the multifactorial progression of the 
disease. In this study, we investigated the synergistic therapeutic effect of 
plant-derived bioactive compounds Withanone, Apigenin, Bacoside A, Baicalin, and 
Thymoquinone in combination with N,N-Dimethyltryptamine (NN-DMT), a psychedelic 
molecule. We used a transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans model to assess the 
behavioral and molecular outcomes following compound exposure. Motility assays, 
thioflavin S staining, and survival assays under oxidative stress were employed 
to evaluate the treatment efficacy. The results of the behavioral and molecular 
analyses indicated that the combination therapy exhibited a higher efficacy than 
the monotherapies, leading to a significant reduction in age-related motility 
defects in the AD model. Furthermore, the combination treatment substantially 
reduced Aβ plaque burden, enhanced survival following OS insult, and 
demonstrated a synergistic effect in mitigating AD-related hallmarks. Taken 
together, these findings support the potential of combining NN-DMT with specific 
bioactive compounds as a promising multi-target therapeutic approach for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14120934
PMCID: PMC12190622
PMID: 40558561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


39. Cells. 2025 Jun 10;14(12):873. doi: 10.3390/cells14120873.

Modulating Cognition-Linked Histone Acetyltransferases (HATs) as a Therapeutic 
Strategy for Neurodegenerative Diseases: Recent Advances and Future Trends.

Mai HA(1), Thomas CM(1), Nge GG(1), Elefant F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Recent investigations into the neuroepigenome of the brain are providing 
unparalleled understanding into the impact of post-translational modifications 
(PTMs) of histones in regulating dynamic gene expression patterns required for 
adult brain cognitive function and plasticity. Histone acetylation is one of the 
most well-characterized PTMs shown to be required for neuronal function and 
cognition. Histone acetylation initiates neural circuitry plasticity via 
chromatin control, enabling neurons to respond to external environmental stimuli 
and adapt their transcriptional responses accordingly. While interplay between 
histone acetylation and deacetylation is critical for these functions, 
dysregulation during the aging process can lead to significant alterations in 
the neuroepigenetic landscape. These alterations contribute to impaired 
cognitive functions, neuronal cell death, and brain atrophy, all hallmarks of 
age-related neurodegenerative disease. Significantly, while age-related 
generation of DNA mutations remains irreversible, most neuroepigenetic PTMs are 
reversible. Thus, manipulation of the neural epigenome is proving to be an 
effective therapeutic strategy for neuroprotection in multiple types of 
age-related neurodegenerative disorders (NDs) that include Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 
Huntington's disease (HD). Here, we highlight recent progress in research 
focusing on specific HAT-based neuroepigenetic mechanisms that underlie 
cognition and pathogenesis that is hallmarked in age-related NDs. We further 
discuss how these findings have potential to be translated into HAT-mediated 
cognitive-enhancing therapeutics to treat these debilitating disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14120873
PMCID: PMC12190429
PMID: 40558500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


40. Biosensors (Basel). 2025 Jun 10;15(6):374. doi: 10.3390/bios15060374.

Assessing the Role of EEG Biosignal Preprocessing to Enhance Multiscale Fuzzy 
Entropy in Alzheimer's Disease Detection.

Arpaia P(1)(2), Cacciapuoti M(1), Cataldo A(3), Criscuolo S(1)(2), De Benedetto 
E(1), Masciullo A(3), Pesola M(1), Schiavoni R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering, University 
of Naples Federico II, 80125 Naples, Italy.
(2)Institute of Intelligent Industrial Technologies and Systems for Advanced 
Manufacturing, National Research Council of Italy, 20133 Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Engineering for Innovation, University of Salento, 73100 Lecce, 
Italy.

Quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) has emerged as a promising tool for 
detecting Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among QEEG measures, Multiscale Fuzzy 
Entropy (MFE) shows great potential in identifying AD-related changes in EEG 
complexity. However, MFE is intrinsically linked to signal amplitude, which can 
vary substantially among EEG systems, and this hinders the adoption of this 
metric for AD detection. To overcome this issue, this study investigates 
different preprocessing strategies to make the calculation of MFE less dependent 
on the specific amplitude characteristics of the EEG signals at hand. This 
contributes to generalizing and making more robust the adoption of MFE for AD 
detection. To demonstrate the robustness of the proposed preprocessing methods, 
binary classification tasks with Support Vector Machines (SVMs), Random Forest 
(RF), and K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) classifiers are used. Performance metrics, 
such as classification accuracy and Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC), are 
employed to assess the results. The methodology is validated on two public EEG 
datasets. Results show that amplitude transformation, particularly 
normalization, significantly enhances AD detection, achieving mean 
classification accuracy values exceeding 80% with an uncertainty of 10% across 
all classifiers. These results highlight the importance of preprocessing in 
improving the accuracy and the reliability of EEG-based AD diagnostic tools, 
offering potential advancements in patient management and treatment planning.

DOI: 10.3390/bios15060374
PMCID: PMC12190283
PMID: 40558456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


41. Clin Pract. 2025 Jun 12;15(6):110. doi: 10.3390/clinpract15060110.

Multicenter Study of Comorbidities in Patients with Periprosthetic Fractures 
After Total Hip Arthroplasty and Their Association with Immediate Postoperative 
Complications.

Niculescu V(1), Dimitriu AL(2), Nistor-Cseppento DC(3)(4), Tirla S(3)(4), Gherle 
A(3)(4), Uivaraseanu B(5), Burnei C(2).

Author information:
(1)University Doctoral School, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 050074 Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Department 14 Orthopedics-Intensive Care, "Carol Davila" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 050474 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Doctoral School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
University of Oradea, 410087 Oradea, Romania.
(4)Department of Psycho-Neuroscience and Recovery, Faculty of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, University of Oradea, 410073 Oradea, Romania.
(5)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, University of 
Oradea, 410073 Oradea, Romania.

Background/Objectives: Periprosthetic fractures (PFs) can occur in both the 
upper and lower limbs, commonly resulting from falls at the same level. The 
frequency of PFs following total hip arthroplasty (THA) ranges from 0.045% to 
4.1%, and this incidence is influenced by several factors, including age, 
gender, the type of prosthesis used, and existing comorbidities. Previous 
studies on this subject have been small in scale and did not adequately address 
the associated comorbidities, which pose a challenge for the aging population. 
This study aims to comparatively assess the incidence of THA-related PFs, 
immediate postoperative complications, and comorbidities in patients with PFs 
from three emergency hospitals. Methods: A retrospective observational study was 
conducted from 1 January to 31 December 2024, in which 54 patients with PFs 
hospitalized in three emergency hospitals (Bucharest, Oradea, and Ploiești) were 
evaluated, divided into Group B (n = 29), Group O (n = 14), and Group P (n = 
11). Results: Of all patients with PFs, 81.48% had minor complications-grade 1, 
9.26% had grade 2 complications (complications requiring medical treatment or 
other minor interventions), and 3.70% had complications requiring surgery or 
invasive procedures. Clavien-Dindo grade 5 (patient death) had an incidence of 
3.70%. Cardiac pathology was the most common pathology; hypertension 
predominated in Group O (42.85%). Alzheimer's disease was associated in 7 
patients (12.96%). Without associated pathology, about 13% of patients were 
identified. Diabetes mellitus also occurred frequently in 31.50%. Data analysis 
indicates a very weak positive correlation between the Dindo Index and the 
Charlson Comorbidity Index (r = 0.046), which is not statistically significant 
(p = 0.628). The effect size, measured by Fisher's z, is also reported as 0.046. 
Conclusions: No significant differences were found among the evaluated centers 
regarding therapeutic approaches, postoperative complications, and associated 
comorbidities. Furthermore, there is insufficient evidence to suggest a 
significant association between the Charlson Comorbidity Index and the 
Clavien-Dindo Index.

DOI: 10.3390/clinpract15060110
PMCID: PMC12191524
PMID: 40558228

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


42. Clin Pract. 2025 May 23;15(6):98. doi: 10.3390/clinpract15060098.

Online Occupational Therapy as a Rehabilitation Intervention for Parkinson's 
Disease: A Systematized Review.

Kountoura A(1), Tegos T(1), Arnaoutoglou M(1), Tsolaki M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Alzheimer Hellas, 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Background/Objectives: Occupational therapy (OT) plays a crucial role in 
addressing functional limitations and promoting independence in Parkinson's 
disease (PD) patients. OT interventions target motor skills, daily activities, 
and engagement in meaningful tasks. Telehealth, the remote delivery of 
healthcare services, has expanded access to rehabilitation, including OT for PD. 
While several studies have examined the benefits of online OT, a comprehensive 
assessment of its impact on functional outcomes and quality of life (QoL) is 
needed. This review aimed to evaluate the effects of online OT interventions on 
functional outcomes and QoL of patients with PD. Methods: This review employed a 
systematized approach, guided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) framework, though it did not constitute a 
full systematic review or meta-analysis. A comprehensive search was conducted 
across PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and Embase databases between August 2023 
and September 2024. The search targeted randomized controlled trials (RCTs) 
investigating telerehabilitation interventions in OT for individuals with PD. 
Studies were excluded if they were not published in English, did not employ an 
RCT design, or lacked a focus on telerehabilitation within the scope of 
occupational therapy for PD. Additionally, systematic reviews, meta-analyses, 
qualitative studies, and studies without measurable outcomes were excluded. Nine 
studies met the inclusion criteria, with four involving occupational therapists 
directly and five evaluating interventions within the scope of OT practice. 
Results: The primary outcomes of this review focused on mobility improvements in 
PD patients, assessed through gait metrics such as gait speed, stride length, 
and gait variability. Secondary outcomes evaluated the impact of 
telerehabilitation on QoL, using tools such as the Parkinson's Disease 
Questionnaire (PDQ-39) and other disease-specific instruments. The findings 
demonstrated that online OT interventions significantly improved motor skills, 
cognitive function, and activities of daily living in PD patients. Furthermore, 
these interventions enhanced overall well-being and QoL. The remote format 
fostered sustained engagement and adherence to therapy, contributing to better 
long-term outcomes. Conclusions: Online OT interventions show promising 
potential for improving functional outcomes and QoL in PD patients. These 
findings underscore the potential of telehealth to expand access to OT services, 
thereby enhancing long-term rehabilitation outcomes for this population.

DOI: 10.3390/clinpract15060098
PMCID: PMC12191676
PMID: 40558216

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


43. Monoclon Antib Immunodiagn Immunother. 2025 Jun;44(3):41-52. doi: 
10.1089/mab.2025.0006.

Development of a Novel Anti-human EphA1 Monoclonal Antibody, Ea(1)Mab-30, for 
Multiple Applications.

Tanaka T(1), Suzuki H(1), Taruta H(1), Saga A(1), Li G(1), Fujisawa S(1), Kaneko 
MK(1), Kato Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Antibody Drug Development, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Miyagi, Japan.

Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular receptor A1 (EphA1) is one of the Eph 
receptor family members, the largest group of receptor tyrosine kinases. EphA1 
is expressed in various tissues and regulates cellular homeostasis by 
interacting with its membrane-bound ephrin ligands and other receptors. EphA1 
critically correlates with the pathogenesis in several disorders, including 
Alzheimer's disease and cancers. Therefore, establishing sensitive monoclonal 
antibodies (mAbs) for EphA1 has been desired for basic research, diagnosis, and 
treatment. In this study, a novel specific and sensitive anti-human EphA1 mAb, 
clone Ea1Mab-30 (mouse IgG1, kappa), was established by the Cell-Based 
Immunization and Screening (CBIS) method. Ea1Mab-30 demonstrated reactivity with 
an EphA1-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cell line (CHO/EphA1), an 
endogenously EphA1-expressing bladder carcinoma cell line (5637), and a 
colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line (Caco-2) in flow cytometry. 
Crossreactivities of Ea1Mab-30 with other Eph receptors were not observed. 
Furthermore, the values of apparent binding affinity for CHO/EphA1 and 5637 were 
determined to be 8.9 × 10-9 M and 1.7 × 10-9 M, respectively. Furthermore, 
Ea1Mab-30 detected EphA1 protein in CHO/EphA1 and 5637 lysates using Western 
blot analysis. Ea1Mab-30 also clearly stained EphA1 of formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded CHO/EphA1 using immunohistochemistry. Ea1Mab-30, established 
by CBIS method, could help analyze the EphA1-contributed cellular functions and 
have potential applications in pathological diagnosis and treatment with 
specificity and high affinity for EphA1-expressing cells.

DOI: 10.1089/mab.2025.0006
PMID: 40558015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Adv Healthc Mater. 2025 Sep;14(24):e2502595. doi: 10.1002/adhm.202502595.
Epub  2025 Jun 25.

KLVFF-Guided Molecular Scissors: a Trojan Horse Strategy for Precision 
Photodynamic Dissolution of Aβ Aggregates.

Ye Z(1), Li L(1), Duan Q(1), Sheng X(1), Zhang C(2), Fan X(2), Li Z(1), Xiao 
L(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 450001, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Central South University, 
Changsha, 410083, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is pathologically linked to the aggregation of 
amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides into neurotoxic fibrils. Despite advancements in 
Alzheimer's therapeutics, current strategies fail to simultaneously target 
amyloid-β aggregation and oxidative stress, particularly with spatiotemporal 
precision. To address the limitations of conventional therapies, this study 
develops a photo-responsive nanomaterial, conjugated polymer nanodots 
functionalized with chlorin e6 (Ce6) and KLVFF peptides (CNPs-Ce650-K0.5), for 
targeted inhibition of Aβ1-42 fibrillization. The nanomaterial is synthesized 
via nanoprecipitation, integrating Ce6 for reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
generation and KLVFF for Aβ-specific recognition. Systematic characterization 
confirms its structural stability, tunable ROS production, and high 
biocompatibility. Fluorescence microscopy, TEM, and CD spectroscopy demonstrate 
that CNPs-Ce650-K0.5 synergistically inhibits Aβ1-42 aggregation through dual 
mechanisms: 1) KLVFF-mediated high-affinity binding to Aβ monomers, preventing 
nucleation; 2) Ce6-generated ROS under light irradiation, destabilizing β-sheet 
structures. This work establishes CNPs-Ce650-K0.5 as a multifunctional platform 
for precise Aβ modulation, offering a promising strategy for AD therapeutics 
with spatiotemporal controllability and minimal off-target effects.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adhm.202502595
PMID: 40557569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 10;16:1590951. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1590951. 
eCollection 2025.

Single-cell ligand-receptor profiling reveals an immunotherapy-responsive 
subtype and prognostic signature in triple-negative breast cancer.

Chen C(#)(1), Qi J(#)(2), Lin W(1), Fu C(3), Jin X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thyroid Surgery, National Key Clinical Specialty (General 
Surgery), The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Hematology and Breast Surgery, Zhuji Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Zhuji, Zhejiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive form of cancer 
that lacks specific targeted therapies. Although ligand-receptor (LR) 
interactions play a crucial role in intercellular communication and contribute 
to tumor heterogeneity, their molecular details and potential as prognostic or 
predictive markers in TNBC have not been thoroughly investigated.
METHODS: We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data to categorize TNBC into 12 
subgroups and 10 distinct cell types. From this dataset, we identified LR pairs 
that exhibited significant intercellular crosstalk and evaluated their 
prognostic relevance in a METABRIC TNBC cohort (n = 298). Through consensus 
clustering of these LR pairs, two molecular subtypes were defined. Key LR genes 
were then selected using Lasso regression and stepwise multivariate analysis to 
build an LR-based prognostic scoring system (LR.score), which was validated 
using both the METABRIC and GSE58812 datasets (n = 107). Additionally, we 
performed siRNA-mediated knockdown of the CXCL9/CXCR3 axis in MDA-MB-231 cells, 
confirming the knockdown via RT-qPCR and Western blot. The functional impact was 
assessed through proliferation, colony formation, and wound healing assays.
RESULTS: One subtype (Clust1) demonstrated strong immune cell infiltration, 
higher immune scores, and enrichment in pathways such as epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition, angiogenesis, and KRAS signaling-indicative of a basal-like, 
immune-active phenotype. Among the LR pairs, the CXCL9-CXCR3 axis was identified 
as a key factor in immune cell recruitment and anti-tumor responses. 
Functionally, silencing the CXCL9/CXCR3 axis significantly diminished the 
proliferation, colony formation, and migratory capabilities of MDA-MB-231 cells. 
Moreover, a higher LR.score was correlated with poorer overall survival (HR = 
1.69, 95% CI = 1.12-2.56, P < 0.05) and reduced response to immune checkpoint 
inhibitors (ICIs), while patients with lower LR.score showed increased 
sensitivity to ICIs, particularly in anti-PD-L1 cohorts.
CONCLUSION: The LR.score serves as an independent prognostic factor and a 
reliable predictor of immunotherapy response in TNBC. Targeting crucial LR 
interactions, especially the CXCL9-CXCR3 axis, may enhance immunotherapeutic 
efficacy and refine prognostic evaluations, paving the way for improved 
treatment strategies in TNBC.

Copyright © 2025 Chen, Qi, Lin, Fu and Jin.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1590951
PMCID: PMC12185476
PMID: 40557143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


46. Front Psychiatry. 2025 Jun 10;16:1572174. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1572174. 
eCollection 2025.

Longitudinal associations between amyloid and symptoms of depression and anxiety 
in subjective cognitive decline: the impact of personality characteristics.

Trieu C(1)(2)(3), van Leeuwenstijn MSSA(1)(2), Schlüter LM(1)(2), Ebenau 
JL(1)(2), Verberk IMW(1)(3), Sikkes SAM(1)(2)(4), Verfaillie SCJ(5)(6)(7), van 
de Giessen E(5), Teunissen CE(3), van der Flier WM(1)(2), van Harten AC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam University 
Medical Center (UMC) location Vrije Universiteit Medical Center (VUmc), Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Program Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam University Medical Center 
(UMC), Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(4)Faculty of Behavioural and Movement Sciences, Clinical Developmental 
Psychology & Clinical Neuropsychology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam University Medical Center (UMC), Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Medical Psychology, Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam University Medical Center (UMC), Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam University Medical Center (UMC) location 
Universiteit Medical Center (VUmc), Amsterdam, Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Depressive/anxiety symptoms are common in subjective cognitive 
decline (SCD) and may relate to Alzheimer's pathology, potentially modulated by 
personality characteristics.
METHODS: Depressive/anxiety symptoms were assessed over 4 ± 2 years in 329 SCD 
(88 amyloid-positive/241 amyloid-negative) using Geriatric Depression Scale-15 
(GDS), Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D), and Hospital 
Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety (HADS-A). Mixed-effects models assessed 
associations between amyloid status and these symptoms, with neuroticism and 
somatization as effect-modifiers.
RESULTS: Amyloid status was not directly associated with GDS, CES-D or HADS-A. 
However, neuroticism modified the association between amyloid status and GDS 
(p<0.05). In lower neuroticism, amyloid positivity was associated with GDS 
increase (β:0.10 ± 0.08), but not in higher neuroticism (β:-0.04 ± 0.12). 
Somatization modified the association between amyloid status and CES-D (p<0.05). 
In lower somatization, amyloid positivity was associated with CES-D increase 
(β:0.65 ± 0.23), but not in higher somatization (β:-0.12 ± 0.29).
DISCUSSION: Amyloid-positive individuals with lower neuroticism/somatization 
increased more in depressive symptoms over time, suggesting a preclinical 
AD-related depressive phenotype.

Copyright © 2025 Trieu, van Leeuwenstijn, Schlüter, Ebenau, Verberk, Sikkes, 
Verfaillie, van de Giessen, Teunissen, van der Flier and van Harten.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1572174
PMCID: PMC12185448
PMID: 40557139

Conflict of interest statement: WV reports that her research programs have been 
funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting, 
CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, HealthHolland, Topsector Life Sciences & 
Health, Stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds, Stichting Equilibrio, Edwin 
Bouw Fonds, Pasman Stichting, Stichting Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, 
Philips, Biogen MA Inc., Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Eli Lilly-NL, 
Fujifilm, Eisai, and Combinostics. WV holds the Pasman Chair. WV is the 
recipient of ABOARD, a public-private partnership funded by ZonMW #73305095007 
and HealthHolland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106. 
WV is also the recipient of TAP-dementia, funded by ZonMW #10510032120003, with 
co-financing from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals and Amprion. All funding is paid to 
her institution. WV has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc., Danone, 
Eisai, WebMD Neurology Medscape, Novo Nordisk, Springer Healthcare, and the 
European Brain Council, with all funding paid to her institution. WV has 
consulted for Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc., and Eisai, 
with all funding paid to her institution. WV has participated in advisory boards 
for Biogen MA Inc., Roche, and Eli Lilly and is a member of the steering 
committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ Novo Nordisk. She is also a member of the steering 
committee of PAVE and Think Brain Health. WV was associate editor of Alzheimer 
Research & Therapy in 2020/2021 and is currently an associate editor at Brain. 
CET reports that her research is supported by the European Commission through 
several grants, including the Marie Curie International Training Network grant 
agreement No. 860197, MIRIADE, TAME, Innovative Medicines Initiatives 3TR 
Horizon 2020, grant No. 831434, EPND IMI 2 Joint Undertaking JU, grant No. 
101034344, JPND bPRIDE, CCAD, and the European Partnership on Metrology, 
co-financed by the European Union’s Horizon Europe Research and Innovation 
Programme and Participating States 22HLT07 NEuroBioStand. CET is also supported 
by the CANTATE project funded by the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, the 
Alzheimer Association, the Michael J. Fox Foundation, Health Holland, the Dutch 
Research Council ZonMW, the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, The Selfridges 
Group Foundation, and Alzheimer Netherlands. CET is the recipient of ABOARD, a 
public-private partnership funded by ZonMW #73305095007 and Health~Holland, 
Topsector Life Sciences & Health PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106, and TAP-dementia, a 
project funded by ZonMW #10510032120003 in the context of the Dutch National 
Dementia Strategy. CET has research contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, 
AC-Immune, Alamar, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, BioConnect, 
Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP 
Pharma, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, 
Olink, PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, and Vivoryon. CET is the 
editor-in-chief of Alzheimer Research & Therapy and serves on the editorial 
boards of Molecular Neurodegeneration, Neurology: Neuroimmunology & 
Neuroinflammation, and Medidact Neurologie/Springer. CET also serves on 
committees defining guidelines for cognitive disturbances and acute neurology in 
the Netherlands. CET has had consultancy and speaker contracts with Aribio, 
Biogen, Beckman-Coulter, Cognition Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo Nordisk, 
Olink, Roche, and Veravas. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


47. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Jun 23;11(2):e70117. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70117. 
eCollection 2025 Apr-Jun.

A splice-switching antisense oligonucleotide targeting APP reduces accumulation 
of α-synuclein in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.

Ahammad RU(1), Spencer B(1), Quach B(1), Salehi S(1), Rissman RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research 
Institute Keck School of Medicine of University of Southern California San Diego 
California USA.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are 
neurodegenerative disorders characterized by abnormal protein aggregation, with 
amyloid beta (Aβ) and α-synuclein (α-syn) as key pathological markers. 
Increasing evidence highlights a pathological interplay between Aβ and α-syn, 
exacerbating neurodegeneration in both AD and PD. In this study, we evaluated 
the effects of reducing amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing on α-syn 
pathology using a splice-switching oligonucleotide (SSO) targeting APP exon 15 
in Thy1-α-syn transgenic (α-syn-tg) mice.
METHODS: α-syn-tg mice received systemic APP SSO treatment. Immunohistochemistry 
and immunoblotting assessed α-syn, phosphorylated α-syn (P-Syn), and APP 
C-terminal fragments (CTFs) in the cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. Neuronal 
integrity in different brain regions were examined, and behavioral assessments 
evaluated cognitive and motor functions.
RESULTS: APP SSO treatment significantly reduced α-syn and P-Syn in the cortex, 
hippocampus, and thalamus while also reversing neuronal loss in the hippocampal 
CA3 region. Interestingly, α-syn-tg mice exhibited elevated levels of 
alternative APP CTFs, which were reduced by APP SSO treatment, implicating APP 
processing dysregulation in α-syn pathology. Although behavioral assessments 
revealed no significant impairments or improvements in female α-syn-tg mice.
DISCUSSION: Our findings demonstrate that targeting APP reduces α-syn pathology 
and rescues neuronal loss, supporting the therapeutic potential of APP 
modulation in synucleinopathies. While no behavioral changes were observed in 
transgenic mice, further research exploring different models and conditions may 
provide additional insights into the full range of therapeutic benefits. Future 
studies should optimize delivery methods and explore combination therapies to 
enhance outcomes in neurodegenerative diseases with overlapping proteinopathies.
HIGHLIGHTS: APP-targeting SSO reduces α-syn and P-Syn in α-syn-tg mice.APP SSO 
lowers APP CTFs, linking APP processing to α-syn pathology.Neuronal loss in the 
hippocampal CA3 region is restored following APP SSO treatment.Behavioral 
assessments show no significant changes in female α-syn-tg mice.Findings support 
APP modulation as a potential strategy for synucleinopathies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70117
PMCID: PMC12185244
PMID: 40556661

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


48. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 10;17:1544605. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1544605.  eCollection 2025.

Research progress of platelets in neurodegenerative diseases.

Lan Y(1), Ding J(1), Yu T(2)(3), Cheng C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University, Zunyi, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Anesthesia and Organ Protection of Ministry of Education 
(In Cultivation), Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(3)Guizhou Key Laboratory of Anesthesia and Organ Protection, Zunyi Medical 
University, Zunyi, China.

Neurodegenerative disease (NDD) is a disease state characterized by the loss of 
neuronal cells in the brain and spinal cord, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS). They have become a major 
challenge for the world's health system in the twenty-first century, with an 
increasing incidence year by year, complex and diverse causes, and a lack of 
effective therapeutic. The brain and spinal cord are composed of neurons, and 
activated platelets are highly similar to neurons. The occurrence and 
development of these diseases are often accompanied by platelet activation, 
suggesting that platelets play an important role in the pathological process of 
NDDs. This article reviews the research progress of platelets in common NDDs, 
and elaborates on the mechanisms of platelets' involvement in NDDs and the use 
as a therapeutic option for NDDs to providing new ideas for the diagnosis and 
treatment of NDDs.

Copyright © 2025 Lan, Ding, Yu and Cheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1544605
PMCID: PMC12185995
PMID: 40556653

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


49. Pol J Vet Sci. 2025 Jun;28(2):213-223. doi: 10.24425/pjvs.2025.154940.

Evaluation of the effects of tideglusib and calcium sulfate on the healing of 
experimental bone defects in rabbits.

Yener K(1), Hayat A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Harran University, 
Akçakale Street Eyyübiye Campus 255 AN 63200 Eyyübiye/Şanlıurfa, Turkey.

This study aimed to evaluate the effects of tideglusib and bone graft mixture on 
bone healing. Tideglusib is a drug used in the treatment of various neurological 
disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. In a relevant study, the positive effect 
of tideglusib on the Wnt pathway, one of the pathways involved in bone 
regeneration and dentin tissue regeneration, was demonstrated. Dentin and bone 
tissues have structurally similar healing mechanisms. Therefore, tideglusib may 
have a similar effect on the bone tissue. The main goal of bone grafting is to 
provide bone regeneration and functional healing through remodeling. Bone graft 
materials are divided into four types based on their source: autogenous, 
allogenous, xenogenous, and alloplastic. Because these graft materials have 
various advantages and disadvantages, research continues to focus on alternative 
materials and applications. Sixteen New Zealand rabbits were included in this 
study. A unicortical 3.5 mm diameter defect was created in the tibia of rabbits 
under general anesthesia. The groups in the study were as follows: Group 1, left 
proximal tibia defect area was controlled (defect area was left empty); Group 2, 
left distal tibia defect area was treated with tideglusib + calcium sulfate; 
Group 3, right proximal tibia defect area was treated with calcium sulfate only; 
Group 4, right distal tibia defect area was treated with tideglusib only. 
Mediolateral (M/L) radiographs of the tibia were taken on the 30th and 60th 
postoperative days. On the 30th day, the first eight rabbits were sacrificed, 
and on the 60th day, the remaining eight were sacrificed for histopathological 
examination. New bone formation in the obtained samples was evaluated by 
radiological and histopathological analyses. The study concluded that the 
combination of tideglusib and calcium sulfate significantly enhanced bone 
healing compared with the other groups (p<0.005). This suggests that tideglusib, 
either alone or in combination with bone graft materials, could serve as a 
promising alternative for the repair of bone defects.

DOI: 10.24425/pjvs.2025.154940
PMID: 40556526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70314. doi: 10.1002/alz.70314.

Voluntary wheel running exercise improves sleep disorder, circadian rhythm 
disturbance, and neuropathology in an animal model of Alzheimer's disease.

Hu Y(1)(2), Niu L(1)(3), Chen Y(1), Yang H(1), Qiu X(1), Jiang F(4), Liu C(5), 
Cai H(6), Le W(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Liaoning Province for Research on the Pathogenic Mechanisms 
of Neurological Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Heping Hospital affiliated to Changzhi Medical 
College, Changzhi, China.
(4)Dalian Seventh People's Hospital, Dalian, China.
(5)Interdisciplinary Research Center on Biology and Chemistry, Shanghai 
Institute of Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(6)Transgenic Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(7)Center for Clinical and Translational Medicine, Shanghai University of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(8)Center for Clinical Research on Neurological Diseases, the First Affiliated 
Hospital, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China.

INTRODUCTION: The sleep-wake cycle and circadian rhythm disturbances are common 
in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is not known if exercise has any 
benefit for the sleep disorders in AD.
METHODS: We conducted a 2-month voluntary wheel running (VWR) exercise (Ex) in 
an animal model of AD (APPSWE/PS1dE9 mice). We assessed behavioral circadian 
rhythm, sleep structure, circadian clock genes, cognitive function, and 
neurodegeneration in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the hippocampus, and the 
cortex.
RESULTS: After VWR exercise in the AD mice, the rapid eye movement sleep was 
increased by 89%. The levels of circadian clock genes were significantly changed 
(brain and muscle arnt-like protein 1 [BMAL1] and retinoic acid receptor-related 
orphan receptorsα [RORα] reduced by 45.7% and 36.4%, reverse erythroblastosis 
virusα (REV-ERBα) increased by 119%) in the SCN by immunofluorescence staining, 
with the mRNA levels were markedly altered (Bmal1 and Rorα decreased by 57% and 
68%, Rev-erbα elevated by 79%) in the hypothalamus at Zeitgeber Time 1; 
phospho-tau 231 (p-tau231) was reduced by 35%, whereas vesicular GABA 
transporter (VGAT) was elevated by 38.7% in the SCN. In addition, ionized 
calcium binding adapter molecude 1 (Iba1), glial fibrillary acidic protein 
(GFAP), amyloid β (Aβ), and p-tau231 were significantly reduced in the 
hippocampus and cortex.
DISCUSSION: Our results demonstrate that VWR exercise improves sleep disorders, 
cognitive deficits, and neuropathology in AD mice.
HIGHLIGHTS: Voluntary wheel running (VWR) exercise improves the behavioral 
circadian rhythm disorder and sleep structure disturbance in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) mice. After VWR exercise, there is a significant change in the expression 
levels of circadian clock genes, and a remarkable reduction of tau 
phosphorylation and axonal damage in the γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons 
in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The levels of beta-site amyloid precurson 
protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) and glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β) are 
reduced in the hypothalamus after VWR exercise in AD mice. Furthermore, VWR 
exercise attenuates cognitive deficits, neuroinflammation, amyloid beta (Aβ), 
and phospho-tau protein accumulation in the hippocampus and cortex.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70314
PMCID: PMC12187974
PMID: 40556345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


51. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70377. doi: 10.1002/alz.70377.

Novel early-onset Alzheimer-associated genes influence risk through 
dysregulation of glutamate, immune activation, and intracellular signaling 
pathways.

Bradley J(1)(2), Pottier C(1)(2), da Fonseca EL(3)(4), Kurup JT(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Western D(1)(2), Wang C(1)(2), Neupane A(1)(2), Ray NR(5), Jean-Francois M(3), 
Ali M(1)(2), Timsina J(1)(2), Bergmann K(1)(2), Budde J(1)(2), Martin ER(3)(4), 
Pericak-Vance MA(3)(4), Cuccaro M(3), Naj AC(9)(10), Kunkle BW(3); Alzheimer's 
Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC), Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer 
Disease Research Center (Knight‐ADRC); Schellenberg GD(10), Fernandez 
V(1)(2)(11), Haines J(12), Morris JC(13)(14), Holtzman DM(13)(14)(15), Perrin 
RJ(16), Reitz C(5)(6)(7)(8), Beecham GW(3), Cruchaga C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)NeuroGenomics and Informatics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis, St Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(3)The John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami, Miami, 
Florida, USA.
(4)Dr. John T. MacDonald Foundation Department of Human Genetics, University of 
Miami, Coral Gables, Florida, USA.
(5)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(7)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(9)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, University of Pennsylvania 
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)Fundacio ACE Research Center and Memory Clinic, ACE Alzheimer Center 
Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Department of Population & Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western 
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Washington University School in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(14)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington 
University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(15)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(16)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Jun 05:rs.3.rs-4480585. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4480585/v1.

INTRODUCTION: Most genetic studies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been 
focused on late-onset AD (LOAD). There are no large genetic studies on 
early-onset AD (EOAD).
METHODS: We performed a multi-ancestry (non-Hispanic European, African, and East 
Asian) genome-wide association study (GWAS) including a total of 7,349 cases and 
17,887 control. Cases with age at onset younger than 70 years were included. 
Sensitivity analysis including cases with onset <65 was performed. Only controls 
older than 70 were included to decrease the risk of developing LOAD.
RESULTS: We identified eight novel significant loci: six in the 
ancestry-specific analyses and two in the trans-ancestry analysis. By 
integrating gene-based analysis, expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), 
protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL), and functional annotations, we nominate 
eight novel genes that are involved in microglia activation, glutamate 
production, and signaling pathways.
DISCUSSION: EOAD, although sharing genes with LOAD, harbors unique genes and 
pathways that could be used to create better prediction models or target 
identification.
HIGHLIGHTS: We performed the largest and first multi-ethnic genetic screening 
for early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). We identified eight novel significant 
loci: six in the ancestry-specific analyses and two in the trans-ancestry 
analysis. The novel genes are implicated microglia activation, glutamate 
production, and signaling pathways. EOAD, although sharing many genes with LOAD, 
harbors unique genes and pathways that could be used to create better prediction 
models or target identification for this type of AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70377
PMCID: PMC12187977
PMID: 40556318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Carlos Cruchaga (C.C.) has received research 
support from GSK and EISAI. The funders of the study had no role in the 
collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; 
or in the decision to submit the paper for publication. C.C. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks in this company. 
CC is a member of the scientific advisory board of ADmit. David M. Holtzman 
(D.M.H.) co‐founded and is on the scientific advisory board of C2N Diagnostics. 
D.M.H. is on the scientific advisory board of Denali, Cajal Neuroscience, and 
Genentech and consults for Asteroid therapeutics. The remaining co‐authors have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


52. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70351. doi: 10.1002/alz.70351.

Baseline characteristics of the U.S. Study to Protect Brain Health Through 
Lifestyle Intervention to Reduce Risk (U.S. POINTER): Successful enrollment of a 
diverse clinical trial cohort at risk for cognitive decline.

Whitmer RA(1), Baker LD(2)(3), Carrillo MC(4), Snyder HM(4), Cleveland ML(2), 
Gitelman DR(5), Kivipelto M(6)(7)(8)(9), Leng XI(3), Lovato L(3), Papp KV(10), 
Pavlik VN(11), Salloway SP(12), Tangney CC(13), Farias ST(14), Williamson JD(2), 
Wilmoth S(2), Woolard N(2), Yu M(11), Espeland MA(2)(3); U.S. POINTER Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
The Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer's Prevention, -Salem, Winston, 
North Carolina, USA.
(3)Division of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Association, Medical and Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's 
Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Advocate Health, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(6)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)University of Eastern Finland, Institute of Public Health and Clinical 
Nutrition, Kuopio, Finland.
(8)Imperial College London, School of Public Health, Ageing Epidemiology 
Research Unit, London, UK.
(9)FINGERS Brain Health Institute, Solna, Sweden.
(10)Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(12)Butler Hospital, Memory and Aging Program, and Warren Alpert Medical School 
of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(13)Departments of Clinical Nutrition, and Family and Preventive Medicine, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, University of California Davis, Sacramento, 
California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The U.S. Study to Protect Brain Health Through Lifestyle 
Intervention to Reduce Risk (U.S. POINTER) is a 2-year randomized controlled 
trial of two lifestyle interventions in 2111 older adults at increased risk for 
cognitive decline.
METHODS: Sociodemographic and clinical characteristics and rates of ancillary 
study participation were described with means and frequencies.
RESULTS: U.S. POINTER successfully enrolled a cohort, ages 60-79 years, which 
was ethno-racially inclusive (>30% individuals from groups often 
under-represented in clinical trials with cognitive outcomes) and 18% residing 
in neighborhoods with moderate or high levels of socioeconomic deprivation. 
Enrollees were cognitively intact but at increased risk for cognitive decline. 
Participation in ancillary studies (overall 73%) was uniformly high across 
sociodemographic groups.
DISCUSSION: The trial cohort meets study goals and provides a basis for 
assessing multidomain lifestyle intervention effects on cognitive function and 
other health outcomes that will generalize to large portions of the at-risk US 
populations.
GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00017953.
HIGHLIGHTS: The U.S. Study to Protect Brain Health Through Lifestyle 
Intervention to Reduce Risk (U.S. POINTER) enrolled individuals at enhanced risk 
for cognitive decline. Efforts to engage socio-demographically representative 
individuals were successful. Four ancillary studies with high rate of 
recruitment extend scientific impact.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70351
PMCID: PMC12187955
PMID: 40556311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: U.S. POINTER was conceived and developed in 
partnership with the Alzheimer's Association. Drs. Carrillo and Snyder, 
full‐time employees of the Alzheimer's Association, have contributed to the 
study design, trial oversight, manuscript preparation, and the decision to 
submit the article for publication. The authors have no conflicts to report. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


53. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70357. doi: 10.1002/alz.70357.

PET-measured amyloid beta accumulates at an accelerated rate in Down syndrome 
compared to neurotypical populations.

McVea A(1)(2), DiFilippo A(1)(2), McLachlan M(1)(2), Betcher B(1)(2), Zammit 
M(2), Betthauser TJ(1)(3), Converse A(2), Murali D(2), Stone C(3), Hartley S(2), 
Johnson S(3), Tudorascu DL(4), Laymon CM(4), Cohen AD(4), Minhas D(4), Luo W(4), 
Mathis C(4), Lao PJ(5), Ances B(6), Zaman S(7), Mapstone M(8), Head E(9), Handen 
BL(4), Christian BT(1)(2); ABC‐DS investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin - Madison School of 
Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin - Madison School of Public Health, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin - 
Madison School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, California, USA.
(9)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine and Neurology, University of 
California, Irvine, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) have a high prevalence of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and reveal an earlier age of amyloid beta (Aβ) onset 
compared to sporadic AD. Differences in amyloid accumulation rates between DS 
and sporadic AD populations have not been established.
METHODS: Participants with ≥ 3 [C-11]PiB scans (spanning > 6 years) and 
transitioning to Aβ+ were included, resulting in 20 DS and 23 neurotypical (NT) 
participants. Amyloid accumulation was compared using global standardized uptake 
value ratio (SUVR) for Aβ deposition, with individual growth rates (r) estimated 
using the logistic growth model ( SUVR (t) = SUVRBL + 1/50 ).
RESULTS: The average growth rate in the DS cohort was 0.28 (0.08)/year versus 
0.20 (0.08)/year for NT ( p = .002 ), an increase of 40%.
DISCUSSION: Using individual longitudinal analyses, accelerated amyloid 
accumulation in DS is observed, This has important considerations for informing 
treatment trial design and monitoring beta-amyloid changes in future AD studies 
involving individuals with DS.
HIGHLIGHTS: Aβ accumulation rate was estimated using a logistic growth model. 
There was no overlap in the age of amyloid positivity between DS and NT cohorts. 
Participants with DS accumulate amyloid 40% faster than those with sporadic AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70357
PMCID: PMC12187968
PMID: 40556306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


54. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):13707-13721. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05148-1. 
Epub 2025 Jun 25.

Investigating the Effects of Niosome Curcumin on the Alteration of NF-κB Gene 
Expression and Memory and Learning in the Prefrontal Cortex of Alzheimer's Rats.

Asani E(1), Hatami H(2), Hamidian G(3), Hatami S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran. elaheasani77@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran. h.hatami@tabrizu.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, 
Tehran, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that is the primary cause of 
dementia, affecting memory and learning abilities. Inflammation, oxidative 
stress, and the accumulation of heavy metals such as aluminum in the brain are 
hypothesized as key contributors to this disease. The aim of this study is to 
investigate the stereological changes and alterations in nuclear factor-kappa B 
(NF-κB) gene expression in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of Alzheimer's male rats 
and the therapeutic effects of curcumin nanoparticles. Fifty-six adult male 
Wistar rats were divided into one of seven groups (n = 8): control, sham 
(ethanol), Alzheimer's disease (AD, AlCl3 at a dose of 4.2 mg/kg for 28 days), 
curcumin (Cur, 20 mg/kg), niosome curcumin (Niosome.Cur, 20 mg), AD + curcumin, 
and AD + niosome curcumin. Administration of free curcumin and niosome curcumin 
was carried out intraperitoneally for 14 and 7 days following the induction of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The object recognition test was performed to assess 
memory and learning parameters, and the T-maze test was conducted to evaluate 
working memory. Expression of the NF-κB inflammatory gene was detected using 
real-time PCR. Stereological evaluation was performed to quantitatively assess 
tissue damage. Results indicated that AD induction caused an increase in NF-κB 
gene expression, and both curcumin and niosome curcumin modulated this 
expression. Stereological changes revealed a quantitative increase in tissue 
damage in AD, and curcumin, particularly niosome curcumin, improved the disease 
state by modulating these parameters. Niosome curcumin enhanced memory in 
Alzheimer's disease. Finally, niosomes as drug-carrying nanoparticles offer a 
suitable option for better efficacy in a shorter time frame for antioxidants 
like curcumin.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05148-1
PMID: 40555893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


55. Nano Lett. 2025 Jul 9;25(27):10853-10861. doi: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.5c02255. 
Epub 2025 Jun 24.

An Ultrasensitive Wearable Nanosensor for Minimally Invasive Self-Screening of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Wang Q(1), Sun X(2), Wu X(1), Liu J(1), Chang C(1), Liu Y(2), Xu T(1), Liu Q(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering, Institute for Advanced Study, College of 
Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Shenzhen University Medical School, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, P. R. China.
(2)Longgang District Central Hospital of Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518116, China.
(3)Guangdong Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Digital Economy 
(Shenzhen), Shenzhen 518060, China.

The rising global prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has emerged as a 
critical public health challenge, placing strain on families, communities, and 
healthcare systems. Despite advances in diagnostic methods, current techniques 
for early AD detection remain limited, often being invasive, costly, and 
impractical for regular use. Here, we report a fully integrated wearable 
nanosensor offering an easily accessible and user-friendly strategy for AD 
screening. This biosensing platform incorporates a microneedle-based 
interstitial fluid (ISF) sampling device and an ultrasensitive graphene 
field-effect transistor (GFET) chip, enabling rapid and precise detection of AD 
biomarkers. Furthermore, this nanosensor was successfully validated in 
transgenic murine models, demonstrating reliable differentiation between AD and 
non-AD mouse groups with high specificity. Overall, this study offers a 
promising alternative tool to the existing invasive and expensive techniques for 
the AD preliminary screening, paving the way for drug discovery, early 
diagnosis, and personalized treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.5c02255
PMID: 40555646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun 23:100108. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100108.
Online  ahead of print.

Globalization of Alzheimer's disease clinical trials: Current characteristics 
and future goals.

Cummings JL(1), Lindle J(2), Dalla I(2), Zhou Y(3), Zhong K(4), Cheng F(5).

Author information:
(1)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV, University of Nevada Las 
Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA. Electronic address: 
jcummings@cnsinnovations.com.
(2)University of Nevada Las Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(3)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
(4)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV, University of Nevada Las 
Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(5)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic 
Lerner College of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH 44106, USA; Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA; Cleveland Clinic Genome Center, 
Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

There are 182 active trials and 138 unique drugs in the current Alzheimer's 
disease drug development pipeline. Of these, 33 % of trials are global involving 
both North American and non-North American sites. Phase 3 clinical trials are 
more likely to have a global distribution of sites (73 %) than Phase 1 or Phase 
2 trials. Considering all global trials together, 32,284 participants are needed 
to populate the ongoing trials; 25,628 of these are required for Phase 3 trials. 
From a world region perspective, 100 % of global trials include North America, 
45 % involve South America or Mexico, 71 % include Europe Western Europe or 
Israel, 39 % include Eastern Europe or Russia, 30 % include Asia (not including 
Japan), 39 % include Japan, and 43 % include South Africa, Australia, or New 
Zealand. A total of 46 countries are participating in current global trials. Of 
the 46 countries, 28 % are classified as low-and-middle-income countries. There 
are 5361 trial sites in active global trials; of these, 50 % are in the United 
States and 50 % are in other global regions. Seven percent of sites are in 
low-and-middle income countries. Eighty-nine percent of global trials are 
sponsored and funded by biopharmaceutical companies. Together these observations 
suggest that many global regions are involved in Alzheimer's disease clinical 
trials. North America has a larger number of trials and trials sites than other 
global regions. Low- and middle-income countries are poorly represented in terms 
of clinical trial sites. These regions have many patients with Alzheimer's 
disease and are well suited to advance trial recruitment if adequate 
infrastructure can be developed.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100108
PMID: 40555627

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Acumen Pharmaceuticals 
Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with ALZPATH that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with Annovis Bio Inc that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Aprinoia Therapeutics 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with Artery Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with Axsome Therapeutics Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Biogen that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Biohaven Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with BioXcel Therapeutics, Inc. that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with CervoMed Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group 
Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Global Alzheimer’s Platform Foundation that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Shanghai 
Green Valley Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Hummingbird Diagnostics GmbH that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
IGC that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Kinoxis that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Lighthouse 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with Eli Lilly and Company that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with Lundbeck LLC that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with LSP Dementia Fund that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Mangrove Therapeutics that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Merck & Co Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with MoCA Cognition that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
New Amsterdam that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Novo Nordisk that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with NSC Therapeutics that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Optoceutics that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey 
Cummings reports a relationship with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Oxford 
Brain Diagnostics that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with PRAXIS that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Prothena Biosciences Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
reMYND Nv that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with Roche that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Signant Health that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Jiangsu Simcere 
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Sinaptica that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with T-Neuro that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with Truebinding that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with 
Vaxxinity Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with National Institute on Aging that includes: funding grants. 
Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship with NIH National Institute of General 
Medical Sciences that includes: funding grants. Jeffrey Cummings reports a 
relationship with National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Kate Zhong reports a relationship with CNS 
Innovations that includes: employment. Feixiong Cheng reports a relationship 
with National Institute on Aging that includes: funding grants. Feixiong Cheng 
reports a relationship with National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke that includes: funding grants. Feixiong Cheng reports a relationship with 
Alzheimer’s Association that includes:. Jeffrey Cummings reports a relationship 
with Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation that includes: funding grants. Has 
patent pending to. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


57. J Appl Toxicol. 2025 Nov;45(11):2265-2277. doi: 10.1002/jat.4839. Epub 2025
Jun  24.

Microglial Dysfunction Mediated by Pb and Amyloid Beta Peptides as a Possible 
Mechanism of Neurotoxicity.

Lokesh M(1), Bandaru LJM(1), Rajanna A(1), Dhayal VS(2), Challa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Cell Biology Division, National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Shri JJT University, Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, 
India.

This study delves into the inflammatory and degenerative impacts of lead (Pb) 
toxicity and amyloid beta peptides (Aβ-peptide 1-40 and Aβ-peptide 25-35) on 
brain cells, particularly by fostering M1 polarization in microglial cells and 
subsequent neuronal cell death, crucial in conditions like Alzheimer's disease. 
Microglia were exposed to IC50 concentrations of Pb, and Aβ-peptide 1-40 and 
Aβ-peptide 25-35 exhibited notable increases in intracellular ROS levels 
(32.95%) upon exposure to combinatorial treatments. Moreover, there was a 
significant decline in total antioxidant capacity to 69.57%, suggesting 
oxidative damage and compromised cellular defenses against stress, coupled with 
heightened glutamate levels (921.3 μM). Treatment with Pb alongside Aβ-peptide 
1-40 and Aβ-peptide 25-35 also led to elevated intracellular calcium levels 
(33.83%) and increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 
(5.54 pg/mL), TNF-α (5.8 pg/mL), and IFN-γ (13.52 pg/mL) and reduced levels of 
anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 (5.61 pg/mL) and IL-4 (14.46 pg/mL) in 
microglial cells compared with the control group. Furthermore, upregulation of 
NF-κB/p65 pathway-associated markers was observed, and when co-cultured with 
neuronal cells for 24 h, polarized microglia induced neuronal cell death 
(57.9%). These findings provide insights into the complex molecular mechanisms 
involved in lead-induced neurotoxicity and neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.4839
PMID: 40555521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Neurosci. 2025 Jul 23;45(30):e2337242025. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2337-24.2025.

A Positive Allosteric Modulator of the SERCA Pump Rescues Hippocampal Neuronal 
Circuits Dysfunction and Cognitive Defects in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Gerasimov E(1)(2), Rakovskaya A(3), Pchitskaya E(3), Vlasova O(3), Dahl R(4), 
Bezprozvanny I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurodegeneration, Peter the Great St. Petersburg 
Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg 195220, Russia 
evgeniigerasimov1997@gmail.com mnlabspb@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Pavlov Institute of Physiology Russian 
Academy of Sciences, St Petersburg 199034, Russia.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Neurodegeneration, Peter the Great St. Petersburg 
Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg 195220, Russia.
(4)Neurodon Corporation, Crown Point, Indiana 46307.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that affects 
normal neuronal functioning and alters neuronal circuits activity and memory 
formation and storage. Disrupted neuronal calcium (Ca2+) signaling is one of the 
drivers of AD pathogenesis. Previously we suggested that positive allosteric 
modulators (PAMs) of the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) pump 
may help to stabilize cytosolic Ca2+ levels and exert neuroprotective effects in 
AD neurons. In the current manuscript, we demonstrate synaptoprotective 
properties of several SERCA PAMs using an in vitro model of amyloid toxicity. 
Based on in vitro experiments, we selected the SERCA PAM NDC-9009 for in vivo 
evaluation in male and female 5xFAD transgenic mice model of Alzheimer's 
disease. Using the miniscope imaging technique, we observed hyperactivity and 
abnormal connectivity of hippocampal neuronal ensembles 5xFAD mice. We further 
discovered that the function of the hippocampal neuronal circuits in 5xFAD mice 
was normalized by NDC-9009 intraperitoneal administration. NDC-9009 
intraperitoneal administration also rescued memory defects in 5xFAD mice as 
quantified by the fear conditioning behavioral test and significantly reduced 
accumulation of amyloid plaques in hippocampal region of these mice. The 
obtained results support the potential utility of NDC-9009 and other SERCA PAMs 
as lead molecules for development of disease-modifying treatments for AD and 
potentially other neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2337-24.2025
PMCID: PMC12311773
PMID: 40555519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Immunity. 2025 Aug 12;58(8):1931-1947.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.05.023. 
Epub 2025 Jun 23.

The R136S mutation in the APOE3 gene confers resilience against tau pathology 
via inhibition of the cGAS-STING-IFN pathway.

Naguib S(1), Lopez-Lee C(2), Torres ER(1), Lee SI(1), Zhu J(1), Zhu D(1), Ye 
P(1), Norman K(1), Zhao M(1), Wong MY(1), Ambaw YA(3), Muñoz-Castañeda R(1), 
Wang W(1), Patel T(4), Bhagwat M(1), Norinsky R(5), Mok SA(4), Walther TC(6), 
Farese RV Jr(3), Luo W(1), Sinha SC(1), Wu Z(1), Fan L(1), Gong S(1), Gan L(7).

Author information:
(1)Helen and Robert Appel Institute for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Brain and 
Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA.
(2)Helen and Robert Appel Institute for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Brain and 
Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA; 
Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA.
(3)Cell Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10065, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H7, 
Canada.
(5)Transgenic and Reproductive Technology Center, Rockefeller University, New 
York, NY 10065, USA.
(6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(7)Helen and Robert Appel Institute for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Brain and 
Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA; 
Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
Electronic address: lig2033@med.cornell.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Jan 12:2024.04.25.591140. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.25.591140.

The Christchurch mutation (R136S) in the APOE3 (E3S/S) gene is associated with 
attenuated tau load and cognitive decline despite the presence of a causal PSEN1 
mutation and high amyloid burden in the carrier. However, the molecular 
mechanisms enabling the E3S/S mutation to mitigate tau-induced neurodegeneration 
remain unclear. Here, we replaced mouse Apoe with wild-type human APOE3 or 
APOE3S/S on a tauopathy background. The R136S mutation decreased tau load and 
protected against tau-induced synaptic loss, myelin loss, and reduction in 
hippocampal theta and gamma power. Additionally, the R136S mutation reduced 
interferon responses to tau pathology in both mouse and human microglia, 
suppressing cGAS-STING pathway activation. Treating E3 tauopathy mice with a 
cGAS inhibitor protected against tau-induced synaptic loss and induced 
transcriptomic alterations similar to the R136S mutation across brain cell 
types. Thus, suppression of the microglial cGAS-STING-interferon (IFN) pathway 
plays a central role in mediating the protective effects of R136S against 
tauopathy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.05.023
PMCID: PMC12406129
PMID: 40555238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests L.G. is founder and 
equity holder of Aeton Therapeutics; co-founder and equity holder of NeuroVanda 
Therapeutics; scientific advisor of Arvinas and NeuroLamda; and a consultant for 
Retro Biosciences. S.C.S. is a consultant and equity holder of Aeton 
Therapeutics. S.C.S. and L.G. have a patent related to this work (publication 
number: WO/2023/154962, International Application no. PCT/US2023/062593). R.V.F. 
serves gratis as a board member for The Bluefield Project to Cure FTD.


60. Am J Hum Genet. 2025 Jul 3;112(7):1597-1609. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2025.06.001.
 Epub 2025 Jun 23.

Single-cell transcriptome-wide Mendelian randomization and colocalization 
analyses uncover cell-specific mechanisms in atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease.

Ray A(1), Alabarse P(1), Malik R(1), Sargurupremraj M(2), Bernhagen J(3), 
Dichgans M(4), Baumeister SE(5), Georgakis MK(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) Hospital, LMU Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(2)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.
(3)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) Hospital, LMU Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany; 
German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, 80636 Munich, Germany; Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), 
81377 Munich, Germany.
(4)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) Hospital, LMU Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany; 
German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, 80636 Munich, Germany; Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), 
81377 Munich, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) 
Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(5)Institute of Health Services Research in Dentistry, University of Muenster, 
48149 Muenster, Germany.
(6)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) Hospital, LMU Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany; 
Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), 81377 Munich, Germany; Program 
in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA. Electronic address: 
marios.georgakis@med.uni-muenchen.de.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified numerous genetic loci 
influencing human disease risk; however, linking these to causal genes remains 
challenging, limiting opportunities for drug target discovery. 
Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) address this by linking variants 
to gene expression but typically rely on bulk RNA sequencing, limiting 
cell-specific resolution. Here, we present a single-cell TWAS pipeline combining 
cis-Mendelian randomization (MR) with colocalization analyses at the single-cell 
level. As a case study, we examined how genetically proxied gene expression in 
immune cells influences atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk. We 
integrated single-cell expression quantitative trait loci (sc-eQTLs) for 14 
immune cell types with GWASs for coronary artery disease, large artery 
atherosclerotic stroke, and peripheral artery disease. sc-cis-MR revealed 440 
gene-outcome associations across cell types, 88% of which were missed by bulk 
TWASs, despite the considerably smaller sample size of the sc-eQTL dataset. Of 
these associations, 21 were replicated with external cis-eQTLs and colocalized 
with ASCVD GWAS signals. Expanding on previous evidence linking genetically 
proxied LIPA expression in whole blood to coronary artery disease, we found 
genetic variants influencing LIPA expression, particularly in monocytes, to 
drive associations with coronary artery disease, large artery atherosclerotic 
stroke, and subclinical atherosclerosis traits. A phenome-wide association study 
confirmed these findings without evidence of associations with unexpected 
clinical outcomes. scRNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry of human carotid 
plaques revealed high LIPA expression in plaque macrophages. Our pipeline 
enables the discovery of cell-specific expression patterns that drive genetic 
predisposition to human disease, potentially impacting target selection for 
cell-tailored therapeutics.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2025.06.001
PMCID: PMC12256824
PMID: 40555237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests M.K.G. reports 
consulting fees from Tourmaline Bio, Inc., and serves on the editorial board of 
Neurology; both activities are unrelated to this work. J.B. is a co-inventor of 
patent applications covering anti-MIF strategies in inflammatory and 
cardiovascular diseases; this is unrelated to the current manuscript.61. Pathol Res Pract. 2025 Aug;272:156090. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2025.156090. Epub
2025  Jun 21.

Clinical insights into the mechanisms of infectious microbes and microbiota in 
chronic neurologic and psychiatric diseases.

Faysal M(1), Zehravi M(2), Amin MA(3), Rab SO(4), Jahnavi P(5), Arjun UVNV(6), 
Gupta JK(7), Billah AAM(8), Vodeti R(9), Prasad PD(10), Aseri SSS(4), Siddiqui 
FA(11), Bin Emran T(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Daffodil 
International University, Dhaka 1216, Bangladesh. Electronic address: 
faysal29-760@diu.edu.bd.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Dentistry & Pharmacy, Buraydah 
Private Colleges, Buraydah 51418, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
mahrukh.zehravi@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Daffodil 
International University, Dhaka 1216, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Science, King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutics, KVSR Siddhartha College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutics, Vels Institute of Science, Technology and 
Advanced Studies (VISTAS), PV Vaithiyalingam Rd, Velan Nagar, Krishna Puram, 
Pallavaram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600117, India.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA 
University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh 281406, India.
(8)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Sri Ramachandra Faculty of Pharmacy, Sri 
Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (DU), Porur, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu 600116, India.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Anurag University, 
Hyderabad, Telangana 500088, India.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Mohan Babu University, MB School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences (Erstwhile Sree Vidyaniketan College of Pharmacy), 
Tirupati, India.
(11)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, N.B.S. Institute of Pharmacy, Ausa, 
Maharashtra 413520, India.
(12)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Daffodil 
International University, Dhaka 1216, Bangladesh. Electronic address: 
talhabmb@gmail.com.

Chronic neurologic and psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, depression, 
Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's are increasingly linked to infectious 
microorganisms and gut microbiota. This review explores how pathogenic 
microorganisms and microbial communities impact neuropsychiatric, 
neurodegenerative, and neuroinflammatory processes, highlighting the gut-brain 
axis' crucial communication network in influencing behavior and brain function. 
Infectious agents like bacteria, viruses, and fungi cause disease by causing 
neurotoxic reactions, disrupting the blood-brain barrier, and activating 
neuroinflammatory cascades. Gut dysbiosis impacts immunological homeostasis and 
neural transmission by altering the synthesis of metabolites from 
microorganisms, such as short-chain fatty acids and neurotransmitter precursors. 
Neurodegeneration and psychiatric diseases are influenced by molecular 
mechanisms such as toll-like receptor signaling, microglial activation, and 
mitochondrial dysfunction. This review highlights the potential of 
microbiota-targeted treatments such as probiotics, prebiotics, and microbiome 
transplantation as novel treatments for chronic diseases. Understanding the 
intricate interactions between infectious microorganisms, microbiota, and the 
central nervous system enables the formation of precision medicine strategies to 
challenge the rising incidence of neurologic and psychiatric diseases. Future 
research should explore causal relationships and identify specific microbial 
biomarkers to enhance early diagnosis, prevention, and personalized treatment 
plans.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2025.156090
PMID: 40555059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


62. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2025 Jun 25;86(6):1-15. doi: 10.12968/hmed.2024.1037.
Epub  2025 Jun 5.

Combined Effects of Donepezil and Memantine on Behavioral and Psychological 
Symptoms, Cognitive Function, and Daily Living Abilities in Patients With 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Tu H(1), Zhou S(1), Lin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, The Third People's Hospital of Fuyang, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

Aims/Background Combined with memantine, donepezil has a beneficial impact on 
the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it can 
potentially increase the risk of adverse events. The aim of this study is to 
compare the effects of low-dose and high-dose donepezil combined with memantine 
on the behavioral and psychological symptoms, cognitive function, and daily 
living abilities of patients with moderate to severe AD, and to explore their 
safety. Methods This retrospective study includes 106 AD patients who received 
treatment in the Third People's Hospital of Fuyang from January 2022 to January 
2024. The patients were grouped according to treatment regimen: patients 
receiving low-dose donepezil (5 mg/day) combined with memantine were included in 
the low-dose group (n = 45), and those receiving high-dose donepezil (10 mg/day) 
combined with memantine were included in the high-dose group (n = 61). The 
assessment results of behavioral and psychological symptoms, cognitive function, 
daily living ability, quality of life, sleep quality, as well as the occurrence 
of adverse reactions during treatment were obtained from electronic medical 
records for the two groups of patients before and after 24 weeks of treatment, 
and were compared using appropriate statistical tests. Results After 24 weeks of 
treatment, the scores of neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI) and behavioral 
pathology in Alzheimer's disease rating scale (BEHAVE-AD) were similar between 
the two groups (p > 0.05). The scores of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 
and Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive section (ADAS-Cog) were 
similar between the two groups (p > 0.05). The scores of activities of daily 
living (ADL) were comparable between the two groups (p > 0.05), and the low-dose 
group had significantly higher quality of life-Alzheimer's disease (QOL-AD) 
scores compared to the high-dose group (p < 0.05). The Pittsburgh sleep quality 
index (PSQI) scores of patients in the high-dose group were significantly higher 
than those before treatment and those in the low-dose group (p < 0.05). There 
was no statistically significant difference in PSQI scores between the low-dose 
group before and after treatment (p > 0.05). During the treatment period, the 
total incidence of adverse reactions in the low-dose group was significantly 
lower than that in the high-dose group (11.11% vs. 27.87%, p < 0.05). Conclusion 
Both 5 mg/day or 10 mg/day donepezil in combination with memantine holds the 
potential to improve behavioral and psychological symptoms, cognitive function 
and daily living abilities in patients with moderate-to-severe AD. In addition, 
high doses of donepezil may lead to decreased sleep quality in patients, 
increased risk of adverse reactions, and less improvement in quality of life 
than low doses.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2024.1037
PMID: 40554441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Vaccine. 2025 Aug 13;61:127410. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127410. Epub 2025
 Jun 18.

Accelerating development of vaccines for prevention and control of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Koff WC(1), Holtzman DM(2).

Author information:
(1)Next Frontier Advisors, Tacoma Park, MD, USA. Electronic address: 
wayne@nextfrontieradvisors.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Knight 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: holtzman@wustl.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127410
PMID: 40554321

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: David M. Holtzman reports a 
relationship with Washington University in St Louis that includes: funding 
grants. David M. Holtzman reports a relationship with Genentech USA Inc. South 
San Francisco that includes: consulting or advisory. David M. Holtzman reports a 
relationship with C2N Diagnostics, LLC that includes: consulting or advisory and 
equity or stocks. David M. Holtzman reports a relationship with Cajal 
Therapeutics that includes: consulting or advisory. David M. Holtzman reports a 
relationship with Switch Therapeutics that includes: consulting or advisory. 
David M. Holtzman reports a relationship with Denali Therapeutics Inc. that 
includes: consulting or advisory. David M. Holtzman reports a relationship with 
Acta Therapeutics that includes: equity or stocks. David M. Holtzman reports a 
relationship with Pfizer Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. David M. 
Holtzman reports a relationship with Roche that includes: consulting or 
advisory. David M. Holtzman has patent #US 2022/0411485 with royalties paid to 
Washington University. If there are other authors, they declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


64. Mol Pharmacol. 2025 Jul;107(7):100046. doi: 10.1016/j.molpha.2025.100046.
Epub  2025 May 19.

Cyclovirobuxine inhibits ferroptosis to mitigate Alzheimer disease in 
glutamate-induced SH-SY5Y cell: the role of the liquid-liquid phase separation 
of FTH1.

Wang F(1), Zhou Q(1), Chen Z(1), Xie L(1), Zheng N(1), Chen Z(1), Sun Q(1), Du 
J(2), Lin J(3), Li B(4), Li L(5).

Author information:
(1)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China.
(2)Central Research Laboratory, Shenzhen Hospital of Integrated Traditional 
Chinese and Western Medicine, Shenzhen, China. Electronic address: 
dujkdu@hotmail.com.
(3)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: linjt326@163.com.
(4)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: gdmuli@126.com.
(5)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine and New 
Pharmaceutical Development, The Affiliated Dongguan Songshan Lake Central 
Hospital, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, China. 
Electronic address: china_lovelylily@hotmail.com.

Ferroptosis represents a distinct form of cell death that differentiates it from 
conventional apoptosis. Numerous studies have demonstrated that ferroptosis 
holds significant potential for elucidating neuronal damage in Alzheimer disease 
(AD). In addition, liquid-liquid phase separation has emerged as a significant 
biological process in recent years. It plays a crucial role in the regulation of 
various proteins in vivo and is closely associated with ferroptosis. Meanwhile, 
nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) serves as a crucial signaling 
pathway in ferroptosis and plays a significant role in regulating many key 
components of the ferroptosis pathway. In addition, an increasing volume of 
research is being conducted on natural medicines aimed at enhancing the 
treatment of AD. Cyclovirobuxine (Cyc) is an alkaloid compound extracted from 
the traditional Chinese medicinal plant, boxwood. It has demonstrated 
therapeutic potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, 
in this study, we established an AD cell model using glutamate-induced SH-SY5Y. 
In glutamate-induced SH-SY5Y cells, Cyc treatment significantly improved 
mitochondrial function and effectively inhibited lipid peroxidation and restored 
the downregulation of FTH1 levels induced. Furthermore, Cyc treatment activated 
the Nrf2 signaling pathway, significantly elevated the nuclear levels of Nrf2, 
and inhibited both iron deposition and lipid peroxidation. Cyc treatment 
conferred resistance to ferroptosis in erastin-stimulated SH-SY5Y cells, wherein 
the Nrf2 signaling pathway and FTH1 protein play crucial roles. The collective 
findings presented here underscore the protective mechanism of action of Cyc in 
AD and emphasize its potential as a therapeutic agent for AD treatment. 
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: It reveals at the cellular level the mechanism by which 
cyclovirobuxine improves Alzheimer disease through the inhibition of 
ferroptosis, providing a novel approach and strategy for the treatment of 
patients with Alzheimer disease.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molpha.2025.100046
PMID: 40554071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interests.


65. J Adv Res. 2025 Jun 17:S2090-1232(25)00443-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jare.2025.06.034.  Online ahead of print.

Therapeutic role of caveolin family in stem cell fate and development for 
management of chronic degenerative diseases: A scientometric study to an 
in-depth review.

Ma R(1), Wang S(2), Cui YL(1), Zhang H(3), Chen X(4), Xie J(5), Li Y(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Component-Based Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Macau, Macau 999078, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Component-Based Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic address: zhanghan0023@126.com.
(4)Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan 
State University, Lansing, MI 48910, USA. Electronic address: chenx184@msu.edu.
(5)Cultivation and Construction Site of the State Key Laboratory of Intelligent 
Imaging and Interventional Medicine, Department of Radiology, Medical School of 
Southeast University, Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, China. Electronic 
address: xiejb@seu.edu.cn.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Macau, Macau 999078, China. Electronic address: 
kevinyli@um.edu.mo.

BACKGROUND: Caveolins (CAV), a family of integral membrane proteins, are 
involved in regulating stem cell fate, which are critical for tissue repair and 
regeneration. Drawing from scientometric studies and comprehensive research, 
this review investigates the mechanisms by which CAV regulates stem cell fate 
can improve the efficiency and accuracy of stem cell therapy in treating chronic 
degenerative diseases (CDD). For instance, CAV1 inhibits neuronal 
differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs/NPCs) by downregulating 
VEGF, p44/42MAPK phosphorylation and NeuroD1 signaling pathway following 
ischemic stroke, while CAV3 interacts with MG53 to enhance the therapeutic 
effects of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) in diabetic wound healing 
by activating the eNOS/NO signaling pathway.
AIM OF REVIEW: Our review aims to elaborate the impact of CAV on diverse stem 
cell populations and regulatory mechanisms, as well as point out novel insights 
brought by CAV and stem cell therapy in the management of CDD, such as stroke, 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), diabetes, pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH), breast cancer and liver cancer.
KEY SCIENTIFIC CONCEPT OF REVIEW: Based on scientometrics studies, this review 
synthesizes current analyses of the CAV family's role in determining the fate of 
various stem cell populations, thereby providing new perspectives for the 
prevention and treatment of CDD.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jare.2025.06.034
PMID: 40554062

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


66. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Aug;110:102808. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102808. Epub
2025  Jun 17.

Start the engine of neuroregeneration: A mechanistic and strategic overview of 
direct astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming.

Jiang H(1), Qi H(1), Tang A(2), Hu S(3), Lai J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China; Zhejiang University-University of 
Edinburgh Institute (ZJU-UoE Institute), Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China; Edinburgh Medical School: 
Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine, The University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Precision 
Psychiatry, Hangzhou 310003, China; Nanhu Brain-computer Interface Institute, 
Hangzhou 311100, China; Liangzhu Laboratory, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou 311121, China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Precision 
Psychiatry, Hangzhou 310003, China; Nanhu Brain-computer Interface Institute, 
Hangzhou 311100, China; Liangzhu Laboratory, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou 311121, China; Zhejiang Engineering Center for Mathematical 
Mental Health, Hangzhou 310003, China; The MOE Frontier Science Center for Brain 
Science and Brain-machine Integration, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou 310058, China; Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China; Brain Research Institute of 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China. Electronic address: 
dorhushaohua@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Precision 
Psychiatry, Hangzhou 310003, China; Zhejiang Engineering Center for Mathematical 
Mental Health, Hangzhou 310003, China; Department of Psychology and Behavioral 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China. Electronic address: 
laijianbo@zju.edu.cn.

The decline of adult neurogenesis and neuronal function during aging underlies 
the onset and progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease. Conventional therapies, including neurotransmitter modulators and 
antibodies targeting pathogenic proteins, offer only symptomatic improvement. As 
the most abundant glial cells in the brain, astrocytes outnumber neurons nearly 
fivefold. However, their proliferative and transdifferentiation potential 
renders them ideal candidates for in situ neuronal replacement. Direct 
astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming offers a promising regenerative approach to 
restore damaged neural circuits. Herein, we propose a "car start-up" model to 
conceptualize this process, emphasizing the need to inhibit non-neuronal fate 
pathways (release the handbrake), suppress transcriptional repressors (release 
the footbrake), and activate neuron-specific gene expression (step on the gas). 
Additionally, overcoming metabolic barriers in the cytoplasm is essential for 
successful lineage conversion. Viral or non-viral vectors deliver reprogramming 
factors, while small molecules serve as metabolic and epigenetic fuel to boost 
efficiency. In summary, we review the current evidence supporting direct 
astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming as a viable regenerative strategy in the aging 
brain. We also highlight the conceptual "car start-up" model as a useful 
framework to dissect the molecular logic of lineage conversion and emphasize its 
promising therapeutic potential for combating neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102808
PMID: 40553977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


67. Stat Med. 2025 Jun;44(13-14):e70058. doi: 10.1002/sim.70058.

Comments on "Novel Non-Linear Models for Clinical Trial Analysis With 
Longitudinal Data: A Tutorial Using SAS for Both Frequentist and Bayesian 
Methods".

Donohue MC(1), Insel PS(2), Langford O(1).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, USA.

Nonlinear longitudinal proportional effect models have been proposed to improve 
power and provide direct estimates of the proportional treatment effect in 
randomized clinical trials. These models assume a fixed proportional treatment 
effect over time, which can lead to bias and Type I error inflation when the 
assumption is violated. Even when the proportional effect assumption holds, 
these models are biased, and their inference is sensitive to the labeling of 
treatment groups. Typically, this bias favors the active group, inflates Type I 
error, and can result in one-sided testing. Conversely, the bias can make it 
more difficult to detect treatment harm, creating a safety concern.

© 2025 The Author(s). Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70058
PMCID: PMC12186841
PMID: 40553468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


68. Methods Mol Biol. 2025;2952:273-282. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4690-8_16.

Artificial Intelligence-Based Genome Editing in CRISPR/Cas9.

Pandey S(1), Choudhari JK(2), Tripathi A(3), Singh A(3), Antony A(3), Chouhan 
U(3).

Author information:
(1)Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki Vishwavidyalaya, Bhopal, India.
(2)Sanjeev Agrawal Global Educational (SAGE) University, Bhopal, India.
(3)Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal, India.

Artificial intelligence (AI) plays a critical role in predicting and improving 
genome editing methods, including CRISPR/Cas9. Recently, several AI models, such 
as DeepCRISPR, CRISTA, and Deep High Fidelity (DeepHF), have been utilized to 
design guide RNAs (gRNAs) for CRISPR-Cas systems. These models assess genomic 
context, desired mutation type, on-target and off-target scores, and potential 
off-target locations. AI models help improve various genome editing methods, 
such as base, prime, and epigenome editing, which allow for precise and 
intentional changes to DNA sequences without the need for donor DNA templates. 
Furthermore, integrating AI with genome editing and precision medicine enables 
the creation of personalized treatments tailored to each individual's unique 
genetic profile. Examining genomic data enables the identification of mutations, 
variations, and biomarkers linked to diseases like cancer, diabetes, and 
Alzheimer's disease. Integrating AI with genome editing can potentially enhance 
genetic modification techniques' precision, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. 
Furthermore, it presents novel prospects for fields like genetics, biomedicine, 
and healthcare, which could significantly impact human health. However, several 
challenges still exist, including high costs, inaccurate edits, and effective 
delivery methods for CRISPR components, improved editing performance, and safety 
in clinical applications.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4690-8_16
PMID: 40553339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):13616-13635. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05135-6. 
Epub 2025 Jun 24.

Similar Normalizing Effect of HSP70 and YB-1 Stress Proteins on the Brain 
Transcription of a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Bobkova NV(1), Chuvakova LN(2), Kononova SV(1), Kovalev VI(1), Sukhikh GT(3), 
Zatsepina OG(2), Rezvykh AP(2), Evgen'ev MB(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cell Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Federal Research 
Center, Moscow Region, Puschino, 142290, Russian Federation.
(2)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(3)National Medical Research Center for Obstetrics, Gynecology and Perinatology 
Named After Academician V.I. Kulakov, Moscow, 117997, Russian Federation.
(4)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991, Moscow, Russian Federation. misha672011@yahoo.com.
(5)Institute of Evolution, University of Haifa, 3103301, Haifa, Israel. 
misha672011@yahoo.com.

Previously, we demonstrated the therapeutic effects of intranasal administration 
of human HSP70 and YB-1 proteins in various models of AD, including olfactory 
bulbectomized (OBX) mice. Herein, we investigated the effect of these two stress 
proteins on transcription in the hippocampus and cortex of OBX mice. Despite 
different structures, both proteins frequently caused pronounced normalizing 
changes in the transcription of the same genes. Thus, the genes that normalized 
their expression due to the action of recHSP70 or recYB-1 coincide by 61%. More 
than 60% of these common target genes exhibited complete restoration to a 
pattern similar to that of the control sham-operated mice. Notably, the number 
of genes with altered expression after administration of the proteins was twice 
as high in the hippocampus as in the cortex. In the brain of OBX mice, the 
protein application led to a normalization of the expression of many genes 
related to AD pathogenesis, including genes that participated in the metabolism 
of Aβ and tau proteins. Importantly, the normalized genes also include loci 
involved in ribosome biogenesis, as well as genes responsible for 
neurotransmitter transport, cognition, apoptosis, mitochondrial functions, and 
protection from oxidative stress. A significant positive effect of both proteins 
was demonstrated in all six cell types studied in the brain of OBX mice, with 
the most pronounced effect observed in the astrocytes. Besides AD-related genes, 
both proteins normalized the expression of several genes implicated in the 
development of major depression and other neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05135-6
PMID: 40553235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: All animal 
experiments were conducted in agreement with the Provision and General 
Recommendation of Chinese Experimental Animals Administration Legislation and 
were approved by the Animal Ethics Committee at the Institute (SLXD-20180912006, 
12 September 2018). Olfactory bulbectomy was performed according to the 
previously described methods (35). Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


70. Biogerontology. 2025 Jun 24;26(4):125. doi: 10.1007/s10522-025-10254-7.

Unveiling mysteries of aging: the potential of melatonin in preventing 
neurodegenerative diseases in older adults.

Unal O(1), Akgun-Unal N(2), Baltaci AK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Medical Faculty, Kirikkale University, Kirikkale, 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Biophysics, Medicine Faculty, Ondokuz Mayis University, Samsun, 
Turkey. nilufer.akgununal@omu.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Physiology, Medical Faculty, Selcuk University, Konya, Turkey.

Neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, and Huntington's disease, result in a substantial health problem for 
the elderly, marked by ongoing neuronal degeneration and a deterioration in 
mental faculties. These disorders are frequently linked to oxidative stress, 
problems with mitochondria, and persistent inflammation in the brain, which 
worsen neuronal damage. The neurohormone melatonin, primarily secreted by the 
pineal gland, has gained recognition as a promising therapeutic agent due to its 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective effects. Melatonin's 
functions extend beyond its regulation of circadian rhythms, as research has 
demonstrated its ability to remove free radicals, improve mitochondrial 
performance, and adjust immune system responses, ultimately reducing the 
progression of neurodegenerative disease. Research findings from preclinical and 
clinical trials imply that taking melatonin supplements could lead to improved 
cognitive abilities, slower disease progression, and an overall better quality 
of life for elderly individuals suffering from neurodegenerative conditions. The 
mechanisms through which melatonin acts, the best dosage, and its long-term 
effectiveness are still being researched. This review underscores the potential 
benefits of melatonin as a supplementary treatment for neurodegenerative 
disorders in older adults, stressing the necessity for additional studies to 
confirm its efficacy and standardize its use in treatment plans.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-025-10254-7
PMCID: PMC12187872
PMID: 40553197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


71. Radiology. 2025 Jun;315(3):e241463. doi: 10.1148/radiol.241463.

Modulation of Cortical and Hippocampal Functional MRI Connectivity Following 
Transcranial Alternating Current Stimulation in Mild Alzheimer Disease.

Wang T(#)(1)(2)(3), Yan S(#)(1)(2)(3), Shan Y(1)(2)(3), Xue H(1)(2)(3), Xing 
Y(4), Bi S(1)(2)(3), Chen Z(1)(2)(3), Xi H(1)(2)(3), Qi Z(1)(2)(3), Tang 
Y(#)(4), Lu J(#)(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Brain Informatics, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Ministry of Education, Beijing, 
China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Background Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) may be effective 
for improving cognitive function in Alzheimer disease (AD), but its impact on 
brain functional connectivity (FC) has not been well studied. Purpose To 
evaluate tACS efficacy in improving cognitive performance and modulating FC 
between brain regions in individuals with AD using functional MRI. Materials and 
Methods In this prospective randomized controlled trial (September 2020 to April 
2022), participants with mild AD were assigned to active (40 Hz tACS with 15-mA 
intensity) or sham (no γ frequency or current) tACS groups for 3 weeks (referred 
to as week 3), with a 3-month follow-up (referred to as month 3). Functional MRI 
and cognitive testing were performed at baseline, week 3, and month 3. Primary 
outcomes were changes in Mini-Mental State Examination and Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment scores from baseline to week 3. Secondary outcomes included FC 
changes within multiple cortical networks and between cortex and hippocampus 
from baseline to week 3 and month 3, assessed using Fisher z-transformed 
correlation coefficient (hereafter, z score). Results Forty-six participants 
were randomized into the active group (n = 23; median age, 66 years; IQR, 62-69 
years; 16 female participants) or the sham group (n = 23; mean age, 64 years; 
IQR, 61-69 years; 14 female participants). The active group had higher 
Mini-Mental State Examination (median score change, 2 [IQR, 1-5] vs 0 [IQR, -1 
to 2]; P = .001) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (median score change, 2 [IQR, 
0-4] vs 0 [IQR, -1 to 2]; P = .03) scores than the sham group at week 3, 
respectively. Compared with the sham group, the active group had increased FC 
between left hippocampus and left middle cingulate gyrus (z score difference, 
0.29; 95% CI: 0.17, 0.42; false discovery rate [FDR]-adjusted P < .001) and 
between the left hippocampus and the left middle frontal gyrus (z score 
difference, 0.16; 95% CI: 0.03, 0.29; FDR-adjusted P = .04) within the posterior 
default-mode network (z score difference, 0.40; 95% CI: 0.07, 0.73; FDR-adjusted 
P = .046) and within the visual network (z score difference, 0.45; 95% CI: 0.17, 
0.73; FDR-adjusted P = .007) from baseline to week 3. Conclusion Cognitive 
performance in mild AD improved following tACS, with increased FC within 
cortical networks and between the hippocampus and specific cortical regions. 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03920826 © RSNA, 2025 Supplemental material is 
available for this article. See also the editorial by Shepherd in this issue.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.241463
PMID: 40552996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Radiology. 2025 Jun;315(3):e251704. doi: 10.1148/radiol.251704.

Imaging the Treatment of Alzheimer Disease: 2030 Could Look Very Different.

Shepherd TM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology New York University Langone Medical Center 660 First 
Ave., 2 Floor NY, NY 10016.

Comment in
    See also the article by Wang and Yan et al in this issue.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.251704
PMCID: PMC12314760
PMID: 40552995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of conflicts of interest: T.M.S. 
Payment for expert testimony; support for attending meetings from the Australian 
and New Zealand Society for Neuroradiology, ASNR Ann Osborne International 
Visiting Professor; associate editor for Radiology; stock/stock options for 
MICroStructure Imaging.


73. Gerontology. 2025;71(4):308-318. doi: 10.1159/000544123. Epub 2025 Feb 14.

The Association between Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha Inhibitor Use and Dementia 
Risk in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

Chung D(1), Noh Y(2), Yu YM(3)(4), Ah YM(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program of Industrial Pharmaceutical Sciences, Yonsei University, 
Incheon, Republic of Korea, darae.chung420@gmail.com.
(2)Pharmacy School, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Yonsei Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Yonsei University, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Medicine and Regulatory Science, Colleges of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Yonsei University, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors (TNFi), commonly prescribed 
for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), have been studied for their potential association 
with dementia risk. However, previous findings are inconclusive. This study 
aimed to evaluate the impact of TNFi use on dementia in patients with RA.
METHODS: A systematical search of MEDLINE, Embase, and CENTRAL databases from 
inception to October 1, 2023, was conducted. Longitudinal comparative studies 
investigating the association between TNFi use and risk of dementia in patients 
with RA were included. Pooled adjusted risks of dementia and meta-analysis were 
conducted to synthesize relative estimates with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Seven observational studies involving 633,089 patients with RA were 
included, of which 6 were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled 
meta-analysis comparing the risk of dementia (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.77, 95% CI: 
0.64-0.93) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) (odds ratio = 0.31, 95% CI: 0.23-0.43) 
between TNFi users and non-users showed a significant association. However, the 
pooled HR for AD risk was inconsistent. Also, the subgroup analyses indicated 
that TNFi use was associated with a decreased dementia risk in older adult 
patients with a mean age of ≥65 years at enrollment (HR = 0.86, 95% CI: 
0.80-0.92) and TNFi new users (HR = 0.86, 95% CI: 0.80-0.92).
CONCLUSIONS: Systematic review and meta-analysis suggest that lowering the level 
of systemic TNF-alpha by using TNFi could lower the risk of dementia. However, 
given the retrospective nature of the included studies, further prospective 
studies are needed to evaluate the role of TNFi in dementia onset.

© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000544123
PMID: 40552864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Pharm Stat. 2025 Jul-Aug;24(4):e70023. doi: 10.1002/pst.70023.

Personalized Treatment Selection for Multivariate Ordinal Scale Outcomes and 
Multiple Treatments.

Siriwardhana C(1), Gunaratnam B(2), Kulasekera KB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, University of Hawaii John A. 
Burns School of Medicine, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics & Biostatistics, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, Kentucky, USA.

In this study, we present an innovative approach for tailoring treatment 
selection on an individualized basis in the presence of correlated multiple 
responses, particularly those measured on ordinal scales, including binary 
responses. Our methodology involves the utilization of rank lists for 
treatments, generated from probabilities of observing responses of higher order 
than each level of the ordinal outcome, conditional on patient covariate 
measurements. We introduce a rank aggregation technique designed to amalgamate 
multiple lists of ranks, allowing for correlations both within these lists and 
among elements within each list. Our approach is versatile, accommodating any 
number of treatments and responses, and is applicable across a wide range of 
models. Our method offers flexibility by allowing the integration of response 
weights, enabling customization based on patient and clinician preferences on an 
individual case basis for optimal treatment decisions. To evaluate the 
performance of our proposed method in finite samples, we conducted a simulation 
study. Furthermore, we provide two illustrative examples using data from 
clinical trials on Cystic Fibrosis and Alzheimer's Disease, demonstrating the 
application of our proposed procedure in real-world scenarios.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pst.70023
PMID: 40552707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1509-1522. doi: 10.1177/13872877251351329. 
Epub 2025 Jun 24.

Associations of semaglutide with Alzheimer's disease-related dementias in 
patients with type 2 diabetes: A real-world target trial emulation study.

Wang W(1), Davis PB(2), Qi X(3), Gurney M(4), Perry G(4)(5), Volkow ND(6), 
Kaelber DC(7), Xu R(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Science, Health, and Society, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(2)Center for Community Health Integration, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Center for Artificial Intelligence in Drug Discovery, Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Development and Regenerative Biology, College of 
Sciences, The University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes of 
Health, North Bethesda, MD, USA.
(7)Center for Clinical Informatics Research and Education, The MetroHealth 
System, Cleveland, OH, USA.

BackgroundAlmost half of the dementia cases are preventable. Semaglutide treats 
several medical conditions that are risk factors for dementia.ObjectiveWe aim to 
investigate if semaglutide is associated with a decreased risk of 
dementia.MethodsWe conducted emulation target trials based on a nationwide 
population-based database of patient electronic health records (EHRs) in the US 
among 1,710,995 eligible patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) comparing 
semaglutide with other antidiabetic medications. First-time diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease-related dementia (ADRD) including vascular dementia, 
frontotemporal dementia, Lewy body dementia and other dementias were examined 
using Cox proportional hazards and Kaplan-Meier survival analyses during a 
3-year follow-up. Models were adjusted by propensity-score matching.ResultsWe 
show that semaglutide was associated with a significantly reduced risk of 
overall ADRD incidence with a hazard ratio ranging from 0.54 (0.49-0.59) 
compared with insulin, 0.67 (0.61-0.74) compared with metformin, to 0.80 
(0.72-0.89) compared with older generation glucagon-like peptide-1 agonists 
(GLP-1RAs). The association varied for specific dementia types, with 
significantly reduced risk of vascular dementia and no evidence of associations 
with frontotemporal and Lewy body dementias.ConclusionsThese findings provide 
evidence supporting protective effects of semaglutide on dementias in patients 
with T2D. Future works are needed to establish the causal relationships through 
randomized clinical trials and to characterize the underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251351329
PMCID: PMC12262134
PMID: 40552638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: George Perry is an 
Editor-in-Chief of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review process 
of this article nor had access to any information regarding its peer-review. The 
remaining authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


76. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 9;17:1582579. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1582579.
 eCollection 2025.

Research progress on microglial pyroptosis and inflammasomes: a comprehensive 
analysis.

Wang X(1), Li Z(2), Ma B(3)(4), Jia Q(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang, China.
(2)School of Medical Engineering, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, China.
(3)Children's Brain Disease Diagnosis, Treatment and Rehabilitation Center of 
the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(4)School of Pediatric Medicine, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(5)Department of Children Rehabilitation, First Affiliated Hospital of Xinxiang 
Medical University, Xinxiang, China.
(6)Xinxiang Key Laboratory of Autism Disease Mechanism Research, Xinxiang, 
China.
(7)Xinxiang Autism Integration Education Engineering and Technology Research 
Center, Xinxiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Microglial pyroptosis and inflammasome activation play critical 
roles in neurodegenerative diseases, especially Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS). In recent years, 
substantial attention has been directed toward elucidating their underlying 
mechanisms, diagnostic approaches, and prognostic implications. This study aimed 
to analyze the current research landscape, hotspots, and trends in this field.
METHODS: Articles published over the past decade on microglial pyroptosis and 
inflammasomes were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) 
database. A comprehensive analysis was conducted, and high-impact articles were 
examined in depth.
RESULTS: A total of 958 articles were included. Among these, 664 originated from 
China, which also had the highest H-index (68), followed by 147 articles from 
the United States, with an H-index of 48 and the highest centrality (0.68). 
Southern Medical University (China) was the leading institution in terms of 
articles (47) and achieved the highest H-index (19). Journal of 
Neuroinflammation published the most articles (59) in this field. High-impact 
studies predominantly focused on the roles of microglial pyroptosis and 
inflammasomes in neurodegenerative diseases, neuroinflammation and therapeutic 
intervention strategies. Keywords such as "depression," "cell death," 
"recovery," and "pathogenesis" emerged as research hotspots over the past 3 
years.
CONCLUSION: Microglial pyroptosis and inflammasome activation have become 
research hotspots in neurodegenerative disease, with China and the United States 
leading in article output and research influence in this field. Southern Medical 
University (China) is the most influential institution, and the Journal of 
Neuroinflammation is the most prolific journal. Current research hotspots 
emphasize elucidating the pathological mechanisms of microglial pyroptosis and 
inflammasome activation in neurodegenerative diseases, especially in AD, PD, and 
MS, and exploring potential therapeutic strategies such as MCC950, quercetin, 
MicroRNA-7, and melatonin. Future studies are expected to focus on mechanism 
elucidation, disease specificity, dynamic regulation, targeted interventions, 
and clinical translation to enhance treatment outcomes and prognosis for 
neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Li, Ma and Jia.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1582579
PMCID: PMC12183299
PMID: 40552323

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


77. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jun 9;16:1615843. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1615843. 
eCollection 2025.

The role of Poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) enzymes in chemotherapy-induced 
cognitive impairments - parallels with other neurodegenerative disorders.

Ordaz DA(1), Gupta K(2), Bota DA(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, United States.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, United 
States.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California Irvine, Irvine, 
CA, United States.
(4)Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, United States.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, United 
States.

Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes are critical in repairing DNA damage 
induced by chemotherapy and/or radiation. Due to PARP's role in DNA repair, 
inhibiting PARP leads to genomic instability and accumulation of damaged cells 
in cell cycle arrest. Previous studies have shown that PARP1 activation 
contributes to the development of various malignant disorders, and using PARP 
inhibitors is a promising intervention in these diseases. However, PARP 
activation is also common in neurological and inflammatory disorders. PARP 
inhibitors were studied in preclinical models of neurodegenerative disorders 
such as Parkinson's, Huntington's, and Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In 
neurodegenerative disorders like AD, activated PARP1 induces Aβ and forms Tau 
tangles, worsening cognitive symptoms. PARP inhibitors are currently used in 
combination therapy with chemotherapy drugs, including cisplatin and 
temozolomide, which are all described as having significant rates of central and 
peripheral nervous system side-effects, raising the potential question of using 
PARP inhibition not only as a cancer treatment but as an approach to mitigate 
the toxicity of the cancer drugs. This review will summarize evidence for the 
potential use of PARP inhibitors for neurologic disorders and discuss future 
prospects of how PARP inhibitors could be repurposed as neuroprotective agents 
against the cognitive complications of chemotherapeutic drugs.

Copyright © 2025 Ordaz, Gupta and Bota.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1615843
PMCID: PMC12183237
PMID: 40552150

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


78. J Inflamm Res. 2025 Jun 19;18:8131-8140. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S526158.
eCollection  2025.

PANoptosis: Cross-Talk Among Apoptosis, Necroptosis, and Pyroptosis in 
Neurological Disorders.

Li P(#)(1)(2)(3), Gao Y(#)(4), Tao Z(2)(5), Mu Z(1)(2), Du S(2), Zhao X(3).

Author information:
(1)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Jiangnan University Medical Center, Wuxi, 
Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Affiliated Wuxi No. 2 People's Hospital of 
Nantong Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(4)Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, People's Republic of China.
(5)Wuxi Neurosurgical Institute, Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Cell death mechanisms play a critical role in organismal development and 
homeostasis, primarily categorized into energy-dependent programmed cell death 
(PCD) and energy-independent necrotic cell death. PCD, regulated through various 
forms such as apoptosis, necroptosis, pyroptosis, ferroptosis, and autophagic 
cell death, is essential for maintaining tissue stability and eliminating 
abnormal cells. Dysregulation of PCD is associated with numerous diseases, 
including cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. Recent studies have revealed 
extensive crosstalk and coordination among classical cell death pathways, 
leading to the identification of a novel programmed cell death mode termed 
PANoptosis. PANoptosis involves the dynamic assembly of the PANoptosome complex, 
which simultaneously activates apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis pathways 
in response to pathogen infection or tissue damage. In neurological diseases, 
PANoptosis exhibits dual roles: it can eliminate pathogen-infected cells but may 
also exacerbate neuroinflammation and neuronal death, contributing to the 
progression of neurodegenerative disorders. This review critically evaluates the 
molecular mechanisms of PANoptosis, its dual roles in neurological diseases (eg, 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and glioma), and potential 
therapeutic strategies targeting PANoptosis, including small-molecule 
inhibitors, genome editing, and delivery technologies. By addressing conflicting 
evidence and outstanding questions, this review aims to provide a comprehensive 
framework for future research and clinical applications. Future research should 
focus on elucidating the molecular regulatory networks of PANoptosis, developing 
specific inhibitors, and advancing clinical applications to provide novel 
insights into the precise treatment of neurological diseases.

© 2025 Li et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S526158
PMCID: PMC12184785
PMID: 40551989

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


79. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Jun 22;11(2):e70126. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70126. 
eCollection 2025 Apr-Jun.

Why testing and diagnosis for Alzheimer's disease are mission critical.

Beasley BW(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oklahoma Tulsa Oklahoma USA.

The author, a physician who has younger-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD), recounts 
his recent lunch with a former coworker who has had a stroke. The author makes 
the point that because we now have an effective treatment for AD, and 
phosphorylated tau217 is a sensitive and specific screening test for AD, we 
should advocate for its usage in Medicare Wellness Visits, given that the adage 
"Time Is Brain" is just as apropos for AD as it has been in stroke care. 
However, at this time, Medicare is not paying for the lab test.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70126
PMCID: PMC12183104
PMID: 40551964

Conflict of interest statement: There were no conflicts of interest in the 
writing of this paper. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


80. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):920-924. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350297.
Epub  2025 Jun 23.

Concerning the debate about homocysteine, B vitamins, and dementia.

Miller JW(1), McCaddon A(2), Yu JT(3), Hooshmand B(4), Refsum H(5), Smith AD(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, 
USA.
(2)Faculty of Social and Life Sciences, Wrexham University, Wrexham, UK.
(3)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Nutrition, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

It is important to identify modifiable risk factors for dementia and to 
introduce policies to implement their modification. The Lancet Commission on 
Dementia Prevention, Intervention and Care failed to identify raised plasma 
homocysteine as a risk factor, despite considerable evidence; hence there is a 
need for a debate on this matter.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350297
PMCID: PMC12284325
PMID: 40551597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: JWM is a member of 
the American Society for Nutrition and is a member of the Alzheimer's Prevention 
Expert Group of the Food for the Brain Foundation. AMcC is a member of the 
American Society for Nutrition and is a member of the Alzheimer's Prevention 
Expert Group of the Food for the Brain Foundation. BH has received speaker 
honoraria from the American Academy of Neurology and Warwar pharma. HR is named 
as an inventor on a patent held by University of Oxford concerning the use of B 
vitamins in the prevention of brain atrophy in mild cognitive impairment. ADS is 
named as an inventor on a patent held by University of Oxford concerning the use 
of B vitamins in the prevention of brain atrophy in mild cognitive impairment; 
he is a member of the Scientific Advisory Boards of Food for the Brain 
Foundation and Elysium Health and a member of the Alzheimer's Prevention Expert 
Group of the Food for the Brain Foundation.


81. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2025 Jul;39(7):e70371. doi: 10.1002/jbt.70371.

Exploring Triptolide's Dual Role in Inflammation and Oxidative Stress: Responses 
of Organelles.

Xiao H(1)(2), Liu Y(2), Liu D(1)(2), Xiang Y(1)(2), Zhang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital of Yangtze University, 
Jingzhou, China.
(2)Laboratory of Oncology, Center for Molecular Medicine, School of Basic 
Medicine, Health Science Center, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, China.

Triptolide (TPL), isolated from the traditional Chinese herb Tripterygium 
wilfordii Hook. f., is a natural compound with complex pharmacological 
activities. TPL has significant therapeutic effects in rheumatoid arthritis, 
Alzheimer's disease, diabetic nephropathy, and other diseases through 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. However, its pro-inflammatory and 
antioxidant effects produce toxicity to multiple organs such as kidney, liver, 
and the reproductive organs. Thus, the effects of TPL on inflammation and 
oxidative stress broaden the therapeutic scope of TPL, but also limit its 
clinical application. In recent years, studies have shown that TPL can 
significantly affect the structure and function of multiple organelles such as 
endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria and lysosomes. The presence of some special 
structures among these organelles, which are involved in the exchange of 
substances and information, may be an important reason for that TPL can cause 
alterations in multiple organelles. This review systematically summarizes the 
dual role and molecular mechanisms of TPL in inflammation and oxidative stress, 
and analyzes the cytological basis for the dual role of TPL from the aspects of 
organelles and their cross-talk, so as to provide a comprehensive and in-depth 
investigation for the fundamental research and clinic application of TPL.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.70371
PMID: 40551538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Drug Dev Res. 2025 Aug;86(5):e70120. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70120.

Management of Alzheimer's Disease With Nanotechnological Interventions and Novel 
Therapeutics.

Shahrukh M(1), Ahmad S(1), Zaafar M(1), Hasan N(1), Ahmad FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
New Delhi, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition marked by 
cognitive deterioration, β-amyloid plaque buildup, intracellular tangles, and 
significant neuronal loss. The increasing prevalence of AD, along with its 
substantial economic burden, underscores the urgent need for effective 
therapeutic strategies in the near future. The challenge is early diagnosis and 
management, hindered by the lack of reliable biomarkers. Currently, there is no 
definitive cure for AD. Attaining improved therapeutic outcomes necessitates 
delivering optimal drug concentrations to the central nervous system (CNS) by 
effectively penetrating the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recently, nanotechnology 
has emerged as a promising approach to address this challenge, enhancing 
brain-targeted drug delivery while highlighting recent advancements and future 
potential. Additionally, novel targeted therapies such as genetic therapeutics, 
stem cell therapy, and immunotherapy approaches overcome AD-based challenges, 
enhance treatment efficacy, and improve patient compliance. This review 
highlights recent advancements in the treatment of AD, focusing on 
nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems, and also explores genetic 
therapeutics, stem cell therapy, and immunotherapy approaches. Overall, the 
review provides a comprehensive overview of these therapeutic approaches, 
shedding light on the evolving landscape of AD treatment and the challenges that 
lie ahead.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70120
PMID: 40551529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1232-1241. doi: 10.1177/13872877251351593. 
Epub 2025 Jun 23.

The association between herpes zoster vaccination and the decreased risk of 
dementia: A systematic review and meta-analysis of cohort studies.

Yin Y(1), Deng J(1), Liu J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Epidemiology of Major Diseases (Peking University), 
Ministry of Education, Beijing, China.
(3)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.

BackgroundHerpes zoster (HZ) infection may increase the risk of dementia, that 
causes a heavy socioeconomic burden. However, the epidemiological evidence 
between HZ vaccination and the risk of dementia remains 
inconclusive.ObjectiveThis meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the effect 
of HZ vaccination on the onset of dementia.MethodsWe searched PubMed, EMBASE, 
Web of Science, Science Direct, and Scopus for cohort studies assessing the 
association between HZ vaccination and dementia risk up to 20th January 2025. 
Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were pooled adopting a 
random-effect model.ResultsFour eligible studies were included in the systematic 
review and five retrospective cohort studies in the meta-analysis. Among 
14,493,383 dementia-free participants at baseline, 427,309 dementia cases 
occurred during 36-95 months of follow-up. All studies were of high quality. 
Pooled analysis of adjusted HRs indicated that HZ vaccination could reduce 
dementia risk by 29% (HR = 0.71, 95% CI: 0.66-0.76, I2 = 97.15%). Subgroup 
analyses revealed heterogeneity linked to definitions of dementia, exposure 
measurements, vaccination doses, deprivation index, and region. The results were 
stable in the sensitivity analyses, and no publication bias was 
found.ConclusionsHZ vaccination was notably related to a reduced risk of 
dementia. More mechanistic studies and epidemiological studies are warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251351593
PMID: 40551502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


84. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):1010-1020. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350525. 
Epub 2025 Jun 23.

Formal and informal care use before, during, and after detection of cognitive 
impairment and dementia: A population-based matched study.

Sakakibara S(1), Dove A(1), Guo J(1), Grande G(1)(2), Akenine U(3), Sjölund 
BM(1)(4), Agerholm J(1), Laukka EJ(1)(2), Calderon-Larrañaga A(1), Xu W(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Stockholm Gerontology Research Centre, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(4)Faculty of Health and Occupational Studies, Department of Health and Caring 
Sciences, University of Gävle, Gävle, Sweden.

BackgroundDementia is linked to increased care use, but formal and informal care 
use throughout the dementia journey remains unclear.ObjectiveTo investigate care 
use before and after the detection of cognitive impairment, no dementia (CIND) 
and dementia and to identify care-related factors.MethodsWithin a 
population-based study, we matched older adults (≥78 years) who developed CIND 
(n = 244) and dementia (n = 175) with cognitively intact participants to form 
CIND/intact (n = 732) and dementia/intact (n = 525) samples. Dementia was 
clinically diagnosed and CIND was determined through a neuropsychological 
battery. Formal (from public and private providers) and informal (provided by 
family and friends) care use was interviewed. Care-related factors included age, 
sex, education, living alone, chronic diseases, and social network. Data was 
analyzed using logistic regressions and linear mixed-effect 
models.ResultsCompared to cognitively intact participants, those with CIND had 
increased care use 3 years after detection (odds ratio [OR] 2.30 and 2.63, 95% 
confidence interval [95%CI] 1.02-5.18 and 1.25-5.53) and those with dementia had 
greater care use over time (OR 2.01, 95% CI 1.20-3.38 to OR 13.58, 95% CI 
4.46-41.34). People with CIND/dementia showed 6.3 to 32.3 h rapid increase in 
informal care hours. Older age, female, living alone, and chronic diseases 
further increased care use.ConclusionsFormal and informal care use during the 
progression of cognitive impairment begins to increase at the CIND stage, but 
only informal care hours continue to increase. The findings highlight the 
complex care needs of people with cognitive impairment and the importance of 
coordination of care.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350525
PMCID: PMC12284328
PMID: 40551495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


85. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70343. doi: 10.1002/alz.70343.

Clinical use and reporting of neurofilament quantification in neurological 
disorders: A global overview.

Delaby C(1)(2), Ladang A(3), Martinez-Yriarte J(4), Zecca C(5), Logroscino G(5), 
Körtvelyessy P(6)(7)(8), Tumani H(9), Parchi P(10)(11), Quadrio I(12), Hart 
M(13), Olsen DA(14), Alcolea D(2)(15), Blennow K(16), Fortea J(2)(15), Lleo 
A(2)(15), Algeciras-Schimnich A(17), Ayrignac X(18), Bedel A(19), Santos 
GAA(20)(21)(22), Borelli W(23), Bouaziz-Amar E(24), Baldeiras I(25), 
Bigot-Corbel E(26), Bjerke M(27), Carretero Perez M(28), Casoli T(29), 
Chabrashvili T(30), Chapman MD(31), Cusato J(32), Dursun E(33), Fourier A(12), 
Galimberti D(34)(35), Gezen-Ak D(33), Gordon BA(36), Gouju J(37), de Las Heras 
Florez S(38), Hernandez Sanchez J(39), Herwerth M(40), Imperiale D(32), 
Kaczorowski F(12), Kasuga K(41), Keshavan A(42), Khalil M(43), Kuhle J(44), 
Leithner C(6), Lewczuk P(45)(46), Letournel F(37), Tsolaki M(47), Giuffrè 
GM(48), Blanc MC(49), Mroczko B(50), Martínez Rodríguez JE(51), Musso G(52), 
Kulczynska-Przybik A(50), Nogueira L(53), Paquet C(54), Baiardi S(10)(11), 
Gaetani L(55), Parnetti L(55), Perez Garay R(56), Poesen K(57), Quillard-Muraine 
M(58), Rodriguez Borja E(59), Schraen S(60), Terracciano D(61), Bachhuber F(61), 
Halbgebauer S(9), Tzartos S(62), Tzartos J(63), Unterwalder N(64), Vermunt 
L(65), Wellington CL(66), Zetterberg H(16), Teunissen C(65), Lehmann S(1).

Author information:
(1)Univ Montpellier, LBPC-PPC, CHU Montpellier, INSERM, Montpellier, France.
(2)Department of Unitat de Memoria, Hospital de la Santa Creu iSant Pau - 
Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau - Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Clinical chemistry department, CHU de Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(4)Clinical analysis service, Hospital do Meixoeiro, Área Sanitaria de Vigo, 
Vigo, Spain.
(5)Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases and the Aging Brain, Department of 
Clinical Research in Neurology, University of Bari "A. Moro" at Pia Fondazione 
"Cardinale G. Panico", Tricase, Lecce, Italy.
(6)Department of Neurology, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurology, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 
Magdeburg, Germany.
(8)Labor Berlin, Division Innovation, Berlin, Germany.
(9)CSF Laboratory, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(10)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DiBiNeM), University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(11)Department of Clinical Neurobiology, IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze 
Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(12)Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Department, Neurodegenerative Pathologies 
LBMMS Hospices Civils de Lyon, BIORAN Team Lyon Neurosciences Research Center 
CNRS UMR 5292 INSERM U1028, Lyon, France.
(13)Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
London, UK.
(14)Department of Biochemistry and Immunology, University hospital of southern 
Denmark, Odense, Southern Denmark, Denmark.
(15)Department of Neurology, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en 
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Department of Clinical Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(17)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, CHU Montpellier, INSERM, Université Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France.
(19)Department of Biochimie, CHU de Bordeaux INSERM BRIC U1312 Université de 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(20)Department of Surgery and Anatomy, School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, 
University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(21)Department of Neurology, São Leopoldo MANDIC School of Medicine, Araras, 
Brazil.
(22)Department of Food and Nutrition, Faculty of Food Engineering, University of 
Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(23)Department of Biochemistry, University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, 
Brazil.
(24)Department of Biochemistry, Hôpital Lariboisière-Fernand Widal APHP, 
Université Paris Cité Paris, Paris, France.
(25)Faculty of Medicine of the University of Coimbra and Center for Innovative 
Biomedicine and Biotechnology, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(26)Department of Biochimie, CHU Nantes, Nantes, France.
(27)Vrije Universiteit Brussel Center for Neurosciences, Department of Clinical 
Biology, Clinical Neurochemistry laboratory, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(28)Department of Neurology, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Tenerife, Spain.
(29)Department of Neurobiology of Ageing, IRCCS INRCA, Ancona, Italy.
(30)Department of Neurology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New 
York, USA.
(31)Neuroimmunology and CSF laboratory, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, UK.
(32)Department of Medical Sciences, UNITO, Turin, Italy.
(33)Department of Neuroscience, Institute of Neurological Sciences, Istanbul 
University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(34)Department of Biomedical, Surgical and Dental Sciences, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy.
(35)IRCCS, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, 
Italy.
(36)Department of Radiology, Washington University in St. Louis School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(37)MINT, INSERM U1066, CNRS 6021, CHU Angers, Angers, France.
(38)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario Nuestra Señora de Candelaria 
Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Santa Cruz, Spain.
(39)Department of Neurology, Unitat de Neuroquímica, Laboratori de Referència de 
Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.
(40)Neurology Department, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(41)Department of Molecular Genetics, Brain Research Institute, Niigata 
University, Niigata, Japan.
(42)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(43)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(44)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(45)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Universitätsklinikum Erlagen, 
Erlangen, Germany.
(46)Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University of 
Białystok, Białystok, Poland.
(47)Department of Neurology, AHEPA University Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(48)Department of Neuroscience, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, 
Italy.
(49)Biochemistry Department, Cochin hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(50)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland.
(51)Servei de Neurologia, Neuroimmunology group Hospital del Mar, IMIM, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(52)Department of Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(53)UMR 5165 CNRS, CHU-PURPAN, Toulouse, France.
(54)Department of Neurologie Cognitive, Université de Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(55)Department of Neurology, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy.
(56)Department of Clinical Analysis Service, Cruces University 
Hospital-OSAKIDETZA, Immunopathology Research Group, Biobizkaia Health Research 
Institute, Barakaldo, Spain.
(57)Alzheimer Research Centre, Leuven Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(58)Clinical Biology Center, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(59)Hospital Clinico Universitario de Valencia Laboratorio de Bioquimica Clínica 
y Patología Molecular, Valencia, Spain.
(60)Department of Biochemistry, CHU de Lille, Lille, France.
(61)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, University Federico II, 
Naples, Italy.
(62)Tzartos NeuroDiagnostics, Athens, Greece.
(63)Department of Neurology, Second Department of Neurology, National & 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(64)Department of Neurology, LaborBerlin, Berlin, Germany.
(65)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(66)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Neurofilament light chain (NfL) quantification aids in diagnosing 
and predicting neurological disorders, but clinical and laboratory practices 
vary across centers. Differences in result interpretation and reporting further 
challenge test commutability. This study aimed to review the global analytical 
and post-analytical methods used for NfL measurement in routine clinical 
practice across different contexts.
METHODS: We established an international working group (WG) and distributed a 
survey to its members to gather information on context of use (COU), (pre) 
analytical methods, cutoff usage, as well as the interpretation and reporting of 
NfL measurements.
RESULTS: Among the centers, 63% measured NfL in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 87% 
in blood, and 53% in both. COU was widespread, with 50% defining pathological 
cutoffs based on publications and 42% considering age. Reporting was primarily 
done through numeric results (95%).
DISCUSSION: Harmonizing cutoffs, reporting, and interpretation across various 
clinical contexts will facilitate the incorporation of this biomarker into 
routine clinical practice.
HIGHLIGHTS: Unique international overview of current analytical and 
post-analytical methods for neurofilament light chain (NfL) measurement in 
routine clinical practice. Tailored sheets for each neurological application. 
Strategies to harmonize cutoffs, reporting, and interpretation of NfL's 
measurement.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70343
PMCID: PMC12185249
PMID: 40551293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Sylvain Lehmann has served as a consultant and 
at advisory boards for Beckman‐Coulter, Biogen, Fujirebio, Lilly, Roche 
Diagnostics. Hayrettin Tumani received research support and/or honoraria for 
lectures and participation in adboards from Alexion, Bayer, Biogen, BMS, 
Chemische Fabrik Karl Bucher, GSK, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Siemens, Teva 
and Viatris, DMSG, BMBF and MWK Baden‐Württemberg, all not related to the 
present work. Peter Körtvelyessy received honoraria for lectures, travelling 
fees and participation in adboards from Roche Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Biogen, 
EISAI, Novartis, EU Horizon. José M Martínez‐Yriarte received honorari for 
lectures from Thermofisher and Fujirebio. Giancarlo Logroscino has served as 
investigator for clinical trials sponsored by Biogen Pharmaceuticals, Axovant, 
Alector, Denali, Roche, Eisai, Genentech, Amylyx, PIAM Farmaceutici SpA. He has 
served as a consultant and has given Lectures for EISAI, Roche, Lilly, Piam 
Farmaceutici Spa, Biogen. Kensaku Kasuga received research support and/or 
honoraria for lectures from Eisai, not related to the present work. Xavier 
Ayrignac has received honoraria for lectures and participation to board from 
ALEXION, BIOGEN, GILEAD, JANSSEN, NOVARTIS, MERCK and ROCHE and unconditionnal 
research support from BIOGEN, NOVARTIS, MERCK and ROCHE. Jens Kuhle received 
speaker fees, research support, travel support, and/or served on advisory boards 
by Swiss MS Society, Swiss National Research Foundation (320030_212534/1), 
University of Basel, Progressive MS Alliance, Alnylam, Bayer, Biogen, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Celgene, Immunic, Merck, Neurogenesis, Novartis, Octave 
Bioscience, Quanterix, Roche, Sanofi, Stata DX. Inês Baldeiras received honorari 
for lectures from Merck, Novartis and Fujirebio. Daniel Alcolea participated in 
advisory boards from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche Diagnostics, Grifols S.A. and 
Lilly, and received speaker honoraria from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche Diagnostics, 
Nutricia, Krka Farmacéutica S.L., Zambon S.A.U., Neuraxpharm, Alter Medica, 
Lilly and Esteve Pharmaceuticals S.A. D.A. declares a filed patent application 
(WO2019175379 A1 Markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative disease). Alicia 
Algeciras‐Schimnich has participated on advisory boards for Roche Diagnostics 
and Fujirebio Diagnostics. She has received speaker honoraria from Roche 
Diagnostics Kaj Blennow has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for 
Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, Beckman‐Coulter, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, 
Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data 
monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. 
Marina Herweth served on scientific advisory boards of Biogen, Merck Serono, 
Alexion, Roche and Horizon Therapeutics (Amgen), received speaker's honoraria 
from Biogen and received travel funding from Roche. Her institution received an 
unrestricted research grant from Roche. She was supported by the UZH Candoc 
Postdoc Grant (#FK‐22‐048) by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) 
Ambizione Grant (PZ00’3_216616/1) and by the Olga‐Mayenfisch‐Foundation (2024). 
Alberto Lleo received consulting fees from Grifols S.A. and Lilly and research 
grants (Fondo de Investigaciones Sanitario, Carlos III Health Institute, 
Alzheimer's Association, Ajuntament de Barcelona, en colaboracion con la 
Fundació La Caixa). Juan Fortea received consulting fees from AC Immune, 
Alzheon, Zambon, Lilly, Roche, Eisai, Perha and research grants (Fondo de 
Investigaciones Sanitario (FIS), Instituto de Salud Carlos III. Spain, National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) USA, Generalitat de Catalunya Spain, Fundació Tatiana 
Pérez de Guzmán el Bueno Spain, Alzheimer´s Association USA, Brightfocus USA, 
Horizon 2020, European Commission). C.Teunissen has research contracts with 
Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC‐Immune, Alamar, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, 
Beckman‐Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, C2N 
diagnostics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, Quanterix, 
Roche, Toyama, Vivoryon. She is editor in chief of Alzheimer Research and 
Therapy, and serves on editorial boards of Molecular Neurodegeneration, 
Alzheimer's & Dementia, Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation, Medidact 
Neurologie/Springer, and serves on committee to define guidelines for Cognitive 
disturbances, and one for acute Neurology in the Netherlands. She had 
consultancy/speaker contracts for Aribio, Biogen, Beckman‐Coulter, Cognition 
Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Olink, Roche and Veravas. Michael 
Khalil has received travel funding and speaker honoraria from Bayer, Biogen, 
Novartis, Merck, Sanofi and Teva and serves on scientific advisory boards for 
Biogen, Bristol‐Myers Squibb, Gilead, Merck, Neuraxpharm, Novartis, Alexion, 
Amgen and Roche. He received research grants from Biogen, Novartis and Teva. All 
other authors declare that they have no competing interests and nothing to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


86. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70270. doi: 10.1002/alz.70270.

Brain tissue electrical conductivity as a promising biomarker for dementia 
assessment using MRI.

Chu J(1), Yao J(2)(3), Li Z(1), Li J(4), Zhang Y(4), Liu C(5), He H(6)(7), Li 
B(8)(9), Wei H(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Center for Brain Imaging Science and Technology, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(3)College of Biomedical Engineering and Instrument Science, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(4)School of Information Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, 
Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of 
California, Berkeley, California, USA.
(6)School of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Brain-Machine Intelligence, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(8)Department of Neurology & Institute of Neurology, Ruijin Hospital affiliated 
with Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(9)Clinical Neuroscience Center, Ruijin Hospital LuWan Branch, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(10)National Engineering Research Center of Advanced Magnetic Resonance 
Technologies for Diagnosis and Therapy (NERC-AMRT), Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, China.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease, involves cognitive 
decline linked to amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau protein aggregation. Magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI)-based brain tissue conductivity, which increases in 
dementia, may serve as a non-invasive biomarker for protein aggregation. We 
investigate the relationship between MRI-based brain electrical conductivity, 
protein aggregation, cognition, and gene expression.
METHODS: Brain conductivity maps were reconstructed and correlated with PET 
protein signals, cognitive performance, and plasma protein levels. The 
diagnostic potential of conductivity for dementia was assessed, and 
transcriptomic analysis using the Allen Human Brain Atlas elucidated the 
underlying biological processes.
RESULTS: Increased brain conductivity was associated with Aβ and tau aggregation 
in specific brain regions, cognitive decline, and plasma protein levels. 
Conductivity also improved dementia discrimination performance, and higher gene 
expression related to ion transport, cellular development, and signaling 
pathways was observed.
DISCUSSION: Brain electrical conductivity shows promise as a biomarker for 
dementia, correlating with protein aggregation and relevant cellular processes.
HIGHLIGHTS: Brain tissue conductivity correlates with Aβ and tau aggregation in 
dementia. Brain tissue conductivity correlates with cognitive scores and GMV. 
CSF conductivity correlates with plasma protein levels. Combining conductivity 
with GMV improves dementia diagnosis accuracy. Gene expression in ion processes, 
cell development, and signaling links to conductivity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70270
PMCID: PMC12185248
PMID: 40551292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


87. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e14573. doi: 10.1002/alz.14573.

Diagnostic performance of plasma Aβ42/40 ratio, p-tau181, GFAP, and NfL along 
the continuum of Alzheimer's disease and non-AD dementias: An international 
multi-center study.

Doecke JD(1), Bellomo G(2), Vermunt L(3)(4), Alcolea D(5), Halbgebauer S(6), In 
't Veld S(3)(7), Mattsson-Carlgren N(8)(9)(10), Veverova K(11), Fowler CJ(12), 
Boonkamp L(3), Houtkamp IM(3)(7), Koel-Simmerlink M(3), Verberk IMW(3), Gaetani 
L(2), Toja A(2), Wojdała AL(3), Fortea J(5), Pijnenburg Y(4), Lemstra A(4), van 
der Flier W(4), Hort J(11), Otto M(6), Hansson O(8)(13), Parnetti L(2), Masters 
CL(12), Lleó A(5), González-Escalante A(14)(15)(16), Contador J(14)(15)(17), 
Suárez-Calvet M(14)(15)(16)(18), Fernández-Lebrero A(14)(15)(16), Puig-Pijoan 
A(15)(16), Ortiz-Romero P(14)(15), Jiménez-Moyano E(14)(15), Minguillón 
C(14)(15)(18)(19), Del Campo M(3)(14)(15)(17), Teunissen C(3).

Author information:
(1)Australian E-Health Research Centre, CSIRO, Herston, Queensland, Australia.
(2)Section of Neurology, Laboratory of Clinical Neurochemistry, Department of 
Medicine and Surgery, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy.
(3)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam University Medical Centers, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neurology, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques Sant Pau - 
Hospital de Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Hospital de la Santa 
Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(7)Translational AI in Laboratory Medicine, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty 
of Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(9)Neurology Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(10)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(11)Memory Clinic, Department of Neurology, Charles University, Second Faculty 
of Medicine and Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(12)The University of Melbourne, The Florey Institute, Victoria, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(13)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(14)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Sant Martí, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Ciutat Vella, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Faculty of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Carrer de 
la Mercè, Ciutat Vella, Barcelona, Spain.
(17)Cognitive and Behavioural Neurology Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital 
del Mar, Ciutat Vella, Barcelona, Spain.
(18)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(19)Departamento de Ciencias Farmacéuticas y de la Salud, Facultad de Farmacia, 
Universidad San Pablo-CEU, CEU Universities, Urbanización Montepríncipe, 
Fuencarral-El Pardo, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau)181, glial fibrillary acidic 
protein (GFAP), neurofilament light chain (NfL), and amyloid beta ratio 
(Aβ42/40) may have diagnostic and prognostic value in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Here we assess which markers can best identify AD from controls and other non-AD 
dementias in a large international multi-center study.
METHODS: Plasma samples (n = 1298) were collected from six international 
centers. Aβ40, Aβ42, GFAP, NfL, and p-tau181 were measured using single molecule 
array. In each group, AD diagnosis/co-pathology was defined according to 
cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers or amyloid positron emission tomography. 
Validations were performed in three separate cohorts via single and dual cut-off 
models.
RESULTS: p-tau181 showed the best area under the curve value to separate AD from 
frontotemporal dementia, controls, and Aβ- dementia with Lewy bodies. However, 
this discriminative power could not be reproduced by applying pre-defined 
cut-offs.
DISCUSSION: p-tau181 was the best single plasma marker for detecting AD at any 
stage. Specific cut-offs are needed to maximize diagnostic performances.
HIGHLIGHTS: Phosphorylated tau (p-tau)181 provided a clear differentiation 
between controls and Alzheimer's disease (AD) participants, with evidence of 
increased levels in the preclinical stage of AD. Plasma biomarkers demonstrated 
that when amyloid co-pathology is removed from dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 
only glial fibrillary acidic protein and neurofilament light chain remain to 
predict DLB. Given the low prevalence of amyloid co-pathology in frontotemporal 
dementia (FTD), p-tau181 and its ratio with amyloid beta 42 are strong 
biomarkers to differentiate FTD from AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14573
PMCID: PMC12185245
PMID: 40551285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.D., E.J.M., P.O.R., A.F.L., J.C., A.G.E., 
C.M., Y.P., A.T., M.K.S., I.H., L.B., C.F., K.V., S.I.V., and S.H. have no 
conflicts of interest to declare. G.B. has grants or contracts from the 
Parkinson's Foundation, Fujirebio, and the Alzheimer's Association. L.V. has 
grants or contracts from NWO VENI and Amsterdam UMC, ZonMw, Olink Dioraphte, 
Roche Diagnostics, Ely Lilly, Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer Nederland, and 
Dutch Dementia researchers conference committee. D.A. has support from the 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, and the Department of Health Generalitat de 
Catalunya PERIS program, and funding from Grfols S.A., Lily, Fujirebio, Roche 
Diagnostics, Nutricia, Krka Farmaceutical SL, Zambon SAU, Esteve 
Pharmaceuticals, and Neuraxpharm. N.M.C. received support from the Swedish 
Alzheimer Foundation, Family Ronnstrom Foundation, Swedish Brain Foundation, 
Kock Foundation, WASP and DDLS joint call for research projects, Konug Gustaf 
V:s och Drottning Victorias Frimurarestiftelse, the Swedish Research Council, 
Biogen, and Owkin. I.V. has grants, funding, or contracts from the Amsterdam UMC 
starter grant, and the TKI grant Health‐Holland, Neurogen Biomarking, and 
Quanterix. L.G. has received grants or contracts from AirAlzh Foundation; 
received consulting fees from Fujirebio and Eli Lilly; has payment or honoraria 
from Fujirebio, Eli Lilly, and Eisai; and support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Fujirebio, Eli Lilly, and Novartis. L.G. also participates on a data 
safety monitoring board or advisory board for Eli Lilly. A.W. received support 
from Quanterix and a grant from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and 
innovation program under the Marie Skłodowska‐ Curie. J.F. received support from 
Fondo de Investigaciones Sanitario (FIS); Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain; 
National Institutes of Health (NIH), USA; Generalitat de Catalunya, Spain; 
Fundació Tatiana Pérez de Guzmán el Bueno, Spain; Alzheimer ´s Association, USA; 
Brightfocus, USA; and Horizon 2020 (European Commission). J.F. received 
consulting fees from Lundbeck, Ionis, and AC Immune, and payments or honoraria 
from Roche Diagnostics, Esteve, Biogen, Laboratorios Canot, MKI, Eisai, Lilly, 
and Adamed. J.F. has patent issued; WO2019175379 A1 Markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease. J.F. participates on a data safety monitoring board 
or advisory board for AC Immune, Alzheon, Zambon, Lilly, Roche Diagnostics, 
Eisai, and Perha. J.F. has leadership or fiduciary roles in the Spanish 
Neurological Society, T21 Research Society, Lumind Foundation, Jerome‐Lejeune 
Foundation, Alzheimer's Association, Health Research Board, Dementia Trials 
Ireland, European Commission, National Institutes of Health, USA, and the 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain. J.F. has receipt of equipment, materials, 
drugs, medical writing, gifts. or other services from Life Molecular Imaging 
(LMI). M.O. received grants or contracts from the BMBF – FTLD consortium, 
moodmarker, the ALS association, and EU_MIRIADE, and funding from Biogen, Axon, 
Roche Diagnostics, and Grifols. M.O. participates on a data safety monitory or 
advisory board from the Biogen ATLAS trial, and has a leadership or fiduciary 
role in the German Society for CSF diagnostics and neurochemistry, as a speaker 
for the FTLD consortium, and for the Society for CSF diagnostics and 
neurochemistry. A.L. has grants or contracts from Hersenstichting and ZOnMW, and 
has a leadership or fiduciary role on the Steering Committee E‐DLB and the Dutch 
Neurology Society. W.F. has grants or contracts from ZonMW, NWO, EU‐FP7, 
EU‐JPND, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek 
Nederland, Health∼Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, stichting 
Dioraphte, Gieskes‐Strijbis fonds, stichting Equilibrio, Noaber Foundation, 
Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, Stichting Steun Alzheimercentrum Amsterdam, 
Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis‐NL, Life‐MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, 
Combinostics. W.F. holds the Pasman chair. W.F. is recipient of ABOARD, which is 
a public–private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (#73305095007) and 
Health∼Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health (PPP‐allowance; #LSHM20106). 
W.F. is recipient of TAP‐dementia, ZonMw #10510032120003. W.F. is recipient of 
IHI‐AD‐RIDDLE (#101132933), a project supported by the Innovative Health 
Initiative Joint Undertaking (IHI JU). W.F. is consultant to Oxford Health 
Policy, Forum CIC, Roche Diagnostics, Eisai, and Biogen MA Inc. W.F. has been an 
invited speaker at Boehringer Ingelheim, Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD 
Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. 
W.F. participated on advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche Diagnostics, and 
Eli Lilly. WF is member of the steering committee of Novonordisk's Evoke/Evoke+ 
phase 3 trials. W.F. is member of the steering committee of PAVE, and Think 
Brain Health. W.F. was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 
2020/2021. W.F. is associate editor at Brain. J.H. has funding from SAB Eli 
Lilly and has stock in Alzheom company. O.H. has consulting fees from AC, 
Immune, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol, Meyer, Squibb, C2N Diagnostics institute, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo, Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, 
Sanofi, and Siemens. L.P. has funding from JPco‐fuND‐2: Multinational research 
projects on Personalised Medicine for Neurodegenerative Diseases (CUP number 
J99C18000210005). L.P. has grants or contracts European Union—Next Generation EU 
– PNRR M6C2 ‐ Investimento 2.1 Valorizzazione e potenziamento della ricerca 
biomedica del SSN (PNRR‐MAD‐2022‐12376035) and Fujirebio. A.L.B. had support 
from Fondo de Investigaciones Sanitario (FIS), Institution de Salud Carlos III 
AC19/00103; has grants or contracts from CIBERNED program (Program 1, Alzheimer 
Disease); has received consulting fees for Grifols S.A. and Lilly; and has 
patents planned issued or pending; WO2019175379 A1 Markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease. M.S.C. has grants or contracts from Roche 
Diagnostics, consulting fees from Roche Diagnostics, and has received funding 
from Roche, Almirall, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk. M.S.C. has participated on 
data safety monitoring board or advisory boards for Roche Diagnostics, Grifols, 
and Eli Lilly. M.S.C. has received equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing 
gifts, or other services from Roche Diagnostics, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Inc. 
(Eli Lilly and company), Janssen Research and Development, ADx Neurosciences, 
Alamar Biosciences, Fujirebio, Meso Scale Discovery, and ALZpath. M.S.C. has 
other financial or non‐financial interests with Roche Diagnostics. A.P.P. has 
support from Laboratoris Esteve, Nutricia Ltd, and participates on a data safety 
monitory board or advisory board for Schwabe Farma Iberica. C.M. has grants or 
contracts from EuFingers JPND research grant, and the ADDF digital biomarkers 
research grant. M.d.C. has support from the JPND‐Bpride project funding, and 
grants or contracts from Alzheimer's research and therapy, Attraction Talent 
Comunidad de Madrid, and PROYECTOS I+D+I – 2020″‐ Retos de investigación from 
the Ministerio Español de Ciencia e innovación; has received payment or 
honoraria from Novonordisk and Springer Healthcare; and has a leadership or 
fiduciary role in BBB‐PIA chair AA and is Scientific advisor for ADPD. C.E.T. 
has research contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC‐Immune, Alamar, 
Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman‐Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, 
Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, 
Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, Vivoryon. She is editor in chief of Alzheimer Research 
and Therapy, and serves on editorial boards of Molecular Neurodegeneratoin, 
Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation, Medidact Neurologie/Springer, 
and serves on committee to define guidelines for Cognitive disturbances, and one 
for acute Neurology in the Netherlands. She had consultancy/speaker contracts 
for Aribio, Biogen, Beckman‐Coulter, Cognition Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Merck, 
Novo Nordisk, Olink, Roche, and Veravas. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


88. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jun 23;20(1):75. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00845-w.

Mechanisms of interventions targeting modifiable factors for dementia risk 
reduction.

Matton A(1)(2)(3)(4), Stephen R(5)(6), Daniilidou M(5)(7)(6), Barbera M(8)(9), 
Alanko V(5)(7)(6), Ballin M(10), Ford J(8), Hemiö K(11), Lehtisalo J(11)(12), 
Rocha SL(5), Mangialasche F(5)(6)(13), Ngandu T(5)(11)(12), Rosenberg 
A(5)(9)(11), Saadmaan G(9), Udeh-Momoh C(5)(14)(15)(16), Uusimäki K(11)(12), 
Solomon A(5)(8)(6)(9), Kivipelto M(17)(18)(19)(20)(21).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden. 
anna.matton@ki.se.
(2)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77, Stockholm, Sweden. anna.matton@ki.se.
(3)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, SchoolofPublicHealth, Imperial 
College London, London, W6 8RP, UK. anna.matton@ki.se.
(4)FINGERs Brain Health Institute, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden. anna.matton@ki.se.
(5)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)FINGERs Brain Health Institute, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, SchoolofPublicHealth, Imperial 
College London, London, W6 8RP, UK.
(9)Institute of Clinical Medicine/Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 702 
10, Kuopio, Finland.
(10)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Clinical Geriatrics, 
Uppsala University, 751 22, Uppsala, Sweden.
(11)Department of Public Health, The Lifestyles and Living Environments Unit, 
Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, 003 00, Helsinki, Finland.
(12)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, 702 10, Kuopio, Finland.
(13)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, 171 76, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(14)School of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, United States of America.
(15)Brain and Mind Institute, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(16)Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN), University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(17)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden. 
miia.kivipelto@ki.se.
(18)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, SchoolofPublicHealth, Imperial 
College London, London, W6 8RP, UK. miia.kivipelto@ki.se.
(19)FINGERs Brain Health Institute, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden. 
miia.kivipelto@ki.se.
(20)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, 702 10, Kuopio, Finland. miia.kivipelto@ki.se.
(21)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, 171 76, 
Stockholm, Sweden. miia.kivipelto@ki.se.

The global prevalence of dementia is increasing. With no widely available and 
accessible treatments to halt or reverse the progression of dementia, exploring 
preventative strategies is critical. Lifestyle-based interventions show promise 
in preventing or delaying dementia onset. However, understanding the complex and 
multifactorial mechanisms underlying dementia, and how interventions target 
these pathways, is essential for developing personalized and effective 
strategies. In this review, we examined the current evidence of the mediating 
pathways in dementia risk reduction. We focused on mechanisms investigated in 
single-domain interventions on physical exercise, cognitive training, diet, 
metabolic/cardiovascular or psycho-social risk factors in line with those 
combined in the landmark FINGER trial. Additionally, we synthesized existing 
literature on mechanisms of action in multimodal interventions combining 
multiple lifestyle changes. Most evidence was identified in relation to 
neuroimaging biomarkers with positive effects for all intervention components. 
The evidence among fluid biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders 
(ADRD) (amyloid-beta peptide (Aβ), tau and neurofilament light chain (Nfl)) 
vascular markers, inflammatory markers, and neurotrophins were less conclusive, 
though physical exercise consistently appeared to impact several of these 
pathways. The findings of this review underscore the potential of 
lifestyle-based interventions in modulating several different types of 
pathophysiological pathways associated with dementia. As the number of dementia 
cases reach epidemic proportions, a multifaceted approach is needed. We propose 
that the next critical step in dementia prevention/risk reduction is to refine 
existing intervention tools and develop an adaptive platform that integrates 
different lifestyle interventions tailored to individual risk profiles and 
needs. Understanding the underlying mechanisms and biomarkers related to 
modifiable risk factors will be instrumental to optimising these interventions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00845-w
PMCID: PMC12186355
PMID: 40551205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: M.Bal. is employed at the Swedish Medical Products Agency, SE-751 03 
Uppsala, Sweden. The views expressed in this paper do not necessarily represent 
the views of this Government agency.


89. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jun 23;17(1):141. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01787-7.

Photobiomodulation mitigates blood-brain barrier disruption in APP/PS1 mouse 
model of Alzheimer's disease by activating the AMPK pathway.

Ma C(1)(2), Ye Y(1)(2), Shi X(1)(2), Li N(1)(2), Mu Z(3), Tan T(4), Yin H(2), 
Dai J(2), Liu Y(1), Chen H(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Separation Membranes and Membrane Processes & Key 
Laboratory of Hollow Fiber Membrane Materials and Membrane Processes, Tianjin 
Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Detection Technology and Systems, Tiangong 
University, Tianjin, 300387, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Medical Materials and Devices, Tianjin Key 
Laboratory of Neuromodulation and Neurorepair, Integrative Regeneration 
Laboratory, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin, 300192, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, No. 
154, Anshan Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 300052, China.
(4)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325000, Zhejiang, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Medical Materials and Devices, Tianjin Key 
Laboratory of Neuromodulation and Neurorepair, Integrative Regeneration 
Laboratory, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin, 300192, China. 
chenhli0107@163.com.
(6)Cangzhou Institute of Tiangong University, Cangzhou, 061000, China. 
chenhli0107@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Photobiomodulation (PBM), which utilizes specific light wavelengths 
to regulate cellular metabolism, signal transduction, and gene expression, has 
emerged as a promising intervention for enhancing cognitive function in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays a critical role in 
protecting the central nervous system, and its dysfunction is a major 
contributor to AD pathogenesis. Although PBM has shown therapeutic potential, 
its effects on BBB integrity and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.
METHODS: Six-month-old female APP/PS1 transgenic mice were subjected to PBM 
intervention (808 nm, 20 mW/cm2) for six weeks. Cognitive function was assessed 
using behavioral tests, while biochemical and histological analyses were 
conducted to evaluate BBB integrity, β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, and protein 
expression related to tight junction proteins (TJs). In vitro, an inflammatory 
model was established by treating brain microvascular endothelial cells (bEnd.3) 
with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce an inflammatory response, and the 
mechanisms of PBM were further explored by analyzing mitochondrial function.
RESULTS: PBM significantly improved cognitive deficits and anxiety-like 
behaviors in AD mice. It enhanced BBB integrity by upregulating the TJs 
Occludin, Claudin-5, and ZO-1, while also facilitating Aβ clearance via the 
low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) pathway and microglial 
phagocytosis, thereby reducing Aβ accumulation in the brain. Mechanistically, 
PBM attenuated apoptosis and mitochondrial oxidative stress while promoting 
mitochondrial energy metabolism. Notably, PBM markedly increased phosphorylated 
AMPK (p-AMPK) levels in the brains of AD mice. In vitro, the protective effects 
of PBM on BBB integrity were substantially diminished upon AMPK inhibition, 
confirming that PBM exerts its neuroprotective effects through the activation of 
the AMPK pathway.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that PBM enhances BBB integrity and 
mitigates Aβ pathology in AD mice by activating the AMPK signaling pathway, 
underscoring its potential as a novel, non-invasive therapeutic strategy for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01787-7
PMCID: PMC12183848
PMID: 40551167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures were approved by the Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences (Ethics Approval No. IRM-DWLL-2021006) and subsequently by the 
Experimental Animal Ethics Committee at the Institute of Radiation Medicine, 
CAMS on February 28, 2023. All authors confirm that all experiments were 
conducted in strict accordance with the relevant guidelines for animal care and 
use, and the study adhered to the ARRIVE guidelines. Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


90. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jun 23;17(1):140. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01781-z.

Long-term electroacupuncture and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
differentially slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease in App(NL-G-F) mice.

Song SM(#)(1)(2), Liu QM(#)(2)(3), Huang X(2), Chen P(2), Tao M(2), Pei X(1), 
Wang HN(4), Han Y(5), Chen JG(6), Hong W(7), Zhang ZJ(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chinese Medicine, the University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital 
(HKU-SZH), Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Neuroimmunomodulation for Neurological Diseases, 
Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced 
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Xijing Hospital, the Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Yueyang Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, 200437, China.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(7)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Neuroimmunomodulation for Neurological Diseases, 
Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced 
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. 
wei.hong@siat.ac.cn.
(8)Department of Chinese Medicine, the University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital 
(HKU-SZH), Shenzhen, 518055, China. zhangzj@hku.hk.
(9)School of Chinese Medicine, LKS Faculty of Medicine, the University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China. zhangzj@hku.hk.
(#)Contributed equally

Both electroacupuncture (EA) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(rTMS) possess the potential in combating the progression of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). In this study, we compared the effects of the two regimens as early 
long-term intervention in AppNL-G-F mice, a new amyloid precursor protein (APP) 
knock-in model that recapitulates multiple AD-associated pathologies, including 
amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, microgliosis, astrocytosis, dendritic and synaptic 
degeneration. The 2-month-old freely moving model mice randomly received EA or 
rTMS for 2~3 sessions a week for 6 months. Cognitive tests were conducted in Y 
maze and Barnes maze sequentially at the age of 4, 6, and 8 months. The cortex 
and hippocampus were dissected thereafter for neurohistological and molecular 
analysis. Both regimens markedly prevented cognitive deterioration at 6 months 
old. EA maintained its significant prevention to 8 months old, but rTMS did not. 
At this age, EA remarkably reduced Aβ burdens with particular dense-core 
plaques; rTMS had similar effects on Aβ plaques, but not on dense-core plaques. 
Both regimens displayed greater suppression on microgliosis in the cortex than 
in the hippocampus, and equivalently inhibited astrocytosis in the two brain 
regions. While both EA and rTMS protected against dendritic degeneration 
surrounding Aβ plaques, EA further mitigated synaptic loss. These results 
demonstrated that EA produced more long-lasting and broad-acting effects than 
rTMS in alleviating memory impairment and pathological products of AD. EA could 
serve as an early long-term intervention and rTMS as adjuvant therapy in slowing 
the progression of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01781-z
PMCID: PMC12183856
PMID: 40551158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: All experimental protocols have been approved by the Committee on 
the University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital and the Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


91. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jun 23;20(1):76. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00865-6.

The PKCι-β-arrestin2 axis disrupts SORLA retrograde trafficking, driving its 
degradation and amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease.

Rehman H(#)(1), Yan S(#)(2), Saggu S(#)(1)(3), Aida M(1)(3), Zhang F(3)(4), Shu 
Y(1), Jones A(1), Trang A(1), Dew E(1), Zhi W(2), Claeboe ET(5), Baucum AJ 
2nd(5)(6), Wu G(7), Jiao K(2), Wang Q(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of 
Georgia at Augusta University, 1120 15 Street, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA.
(2)Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Medical College of Georgia at 
Augusta University, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA.
(3)Department of Cell, Developmental and Integrative Biology, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 35294, USA.
(4)Present Address: Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY, 10065, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA.
(6)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical College of Georgia at 
Augusta University, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA.
(8)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of 
Georgia at Augusta University, 1120 15 Street, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. 
qiwang@augusta.edu.
(9)Department of Cell, Developmental and Integrative Biology, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 35294, USA. qiwang@augusta.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Variants of SORL1 have been associated with both late and early 
onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). SORL1 encodes the sorting-related receptor 
with A repeat (SORLA) protein, which belongs to the VPS10 receptor family. SORLA 
protects against AD pathogenesis through its sorting function, and reduced SORLA 
levels have been consistently observed in sporadic AD. Although the importance 
of SORLA in AD pathogenesis is well recognized, how it can be targeted for AD 
treatment remains to be established, owing to the inadequate understanding of 
its regulation by intracellular signaling.
METHODS: We employed combined biochemical, cell biological, and pharmacological 
approaches to investigate how SORLA trafficking and stability are regulated. 
Additionally, we used an AD mouse model, postmortem tissue samples, and 
iPSC-derived neurons to examine the functional outcomes of this regulation.
RESULTS: We identified a novel direct interaction between SORLA and β-arrestin2 
(βARR2), which impedes the interaction of SORLA with the retromer complex, thus 
reducing the retrograde trafficking of SORLA. βARR2 promotes the interaction 
between SORLA and the ESCRT0 complex, leading to the lysosomal localization and 
degradation of SORLA. We also found that PKCι/λ induces SORLA phosphorylation 
and enhances its interaction with βARR2, promoting SORLA degradation. 
Importantly, blocking PKCι/λ with auranofin disrupts the SORLA-βARR2 
interaction, elevates SORLA levels, decreases amyloidogenic processing of APP, 
and improves cognition in the AppNL-G-F/NL-G-F AD mouse model. Furthermore, PKCι 
is hyperactive in human AD brains, and auranofin reduces Aβ production in AD 
iPSC-derived neurons through increasing SORLA levels.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals the PKCι/λ-βARR2 axis as a key molecular mechanism 
that disrupts SORLA retrograde trafficking and drives its degradation. Our 
findings represent the first evidence that SORLA levels can be pharmacologically 
manipulated through blocking PKCι/λ to reduce Aβ production and alleviate 
AD-related phenotypes. Notably, repurposing auranofin, an FDA-approved drug for 
rheumatoid arthritis, may offer the potential for AD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00865-6
PMCID: PMC12186327
PMID: 40551140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All mice were housed in the AAALAC-accredited Animal Resources 
Program facility at the Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University. This 
was done in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act, and all studies adhered to 
procedures approved by the Augusta University Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (protocol number #2021–1061) and the UAB Institutional Animal Care and 
Use Committee (IACUC-22176), as well as IRB protocols #N140909007. Competing 
interests: Q.W. serves on the Board of Scientific Advisory for Terran 
Biosciences, Inc. Q.W. and K.J. are co-founders of BioQure, LLC. Other authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


92. J Inflamm (Lond). 2025 Jun 23;22(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s12950-025-00449-7.

The soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitor TPPU alleviates Aβ-mediated 
neuroinflammatory responses in Drosophila melanogaster and cellular models of 
alzheimer's disease.

Sun X(1)(2), Liu H(1)(2), Li W(1)(2), Li L(1)(2), Tian Q(1)(2), Cao Q(1)(2), 
Meng Y(1)(2), Shen Y(1)(2), Che F(1)(2), Chiu JC(3), Yu J(4)(5), Hammock BD(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Linyi People's Hospital, Linyi, 276000, Shandong, 
China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Linyi, 
276000, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Entomology and Nematology, College of Agricultural and 
Environmental Sciences, University of California Davis, Davis, CA, 95616, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Linyi People's Hospital, Linyi, 276000, Shandong, 
China. yujixu@163.com.
(5)Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Linyi, 
276000, Shandong, China. yujixu@163.com.
(6)Department of Entomology and Nematology and UCD Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California, Davis, CA, 95616, USA. bdhammock@ucdavis.edu.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disease, and 
its pathogenesis is closely associated with neuroinflammation. The control of 
neuroinflammation in AD is the focus of current research. soluble epoxide 
hydrolase (sEH) protein is increased in the brain tissues of patients with AD 
and has been targeted by multiple genome wide association studies as a prime 
target for treating AD. Since sEH induces nerve inflammation by degrading 
epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), application of sEH inhibitor and sEH gene 
knockout are effective ways to improve the bioavailability of EETs and inhibit 
or even resolve neuroinflammation in AD. 
1-trifluoromethoxyphenyl-3-(1-propionylpiperidin-4-yl) urea (TPPU) is a potent 
sEH inhibitor that has been shown to be effective in preclinical animal models 
of a variety of chronic inflammatory diseases. This study aims to further 
explore whether TPPU can alleviate AD neuroinflammation.
METHODS: We established an Aβ42-transgenic Drosophila melanogaster model using 
the galactose-regulated upstream promoter element 4 (GAL4) / upstream active 
sequence (UAS) expression system and investigated the protective and 
anti-neuroinflammatory effects of TPPU against Aβ toxicity. We detected 
behavioral indexes (survival time, crawling ability, and olfactory memory) and 
biochemical indexes malondialdehyde (MDA) content and superoxide dismutase (SOD) 
activity in brain tissues of Aβ42 transgenic flies. Finally, we explored the 
anti-neuroinflammatory effect of TPPU and its possible mechanism by stimulating 
cocultures of human SH-SY5Y cells and HMC3 cells with Aβ(25-35) to model 
neuronal cell inflammation, and evaluated the cells by fluorescence microscopy, 
ELISA, Western Blot, and Real-time PCR.
RESULTS: We found that TPPU improved the survival time, crawling ability, and 
olfactory memory of Aβ42-transgenic flies. We also observed reduction of MDA 
content and elevation of SOD activity in the brain tissues of these flies. In 
human cell models, we found that TPPU improved cell viability, reduced cell 
apoptosis, decreased lipid oxidation, inhibited oxidative damage, thus playing a 
neuroprotective role. The inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α 
(TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-18 (IL-18) 
were downregulated, and the mRNA expression of the M2 microglia markers CD206 
and SOCS3 were upregulated by TPPU; thus, TPPU inhibited neuroinflammatory 
responses. TPPU exerted neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects by 
decreasing the protein expression of the sEH-encoding gene EPHX2 and increasing 
the levels of 11,12-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (11,12-EET) and 
14,15-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (14,15-EET). The inhibitory effect of TPPU on 
Aβ(25-35)-mediated neuroinflammation was associated with inhibition of the toll 
like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nuclear transcription factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway and p38 
mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK)/NF-κB pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: We report that the sEH inhibitor TPPU exerts neuroprotective and 
anti-neuroinflammatory effects in AD models, and it is expected that this drug 
could potentially be used for the prevention and treatment of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12950-025-00449-7
PMCID: PMC12183823
PMID: 40551105

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for publication: All 
listed authors consent to the submission. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


93. Australas Psychiatry. 2025 Aug;33(4):599-602. doi: 10.1177/10398562251355157.
 Epub 2025 Jun 23.

Donanemab: The dawn of disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease in 
Australia.

Loi SM(1)(2), Kang MJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatry Centre, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia.

On 22 May 2025, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) announced that the 
anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody donanemab (Eli Lilly, Kisunla) was approved in 
Australia for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This has been heralded 
by some as a breakthrough for the treatment of AD, reflecting a turning point 
from symptomatic treatments to disease-modifying therapies. Psychiatrists should 
understand this scientific context, as it underpins both the hope and the limits 
of what donanemab can achieve. The roll-out of disease-modifying treatment comes 
with significant challenges but also provides a unique opportunity to improve 
care for people with AD and other dementias.

DOI: 10.1177/10398562251355157
PMID: 40550741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DisclosureThe authors declared the following 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: SL is a Deputy Editor of Australasian Psychiatry 
and is a member of the development of the updated Dementia Clinical Practice 
Guidelines. This commissioned Editorial reflects the views of the authors, not 
the journal or any other organisation that the authors are affiliated with.


94. J Neurosci. 2025 Jul 30;45(31):e0158252025. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0158-25.2025.

Fine-Tuning the Details: Post-encoding Music Differentially Impacts General and 
Detailed Memory.

Clark KR(1), Leal SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology, UCLA, Los Angeles, California 
90095 stephanieleal@ucla.edu.

Music can effectively induce emotional arousal, which is associated with the 
release of stress hormones that are important for the emotional modulation of 
memory. Thus, music may serve as a powerful modulator of memory and mood, making 
it a promising therapeutic tool for memory and mood disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease or depression. However, music's impact on memory depends on 
its features, timing, and ability to elicit emotional arousal. In the current 
study, we manipulated various features of music played during post-encoding 
memory consolidation to elicit emotional arousal and impact subsequent memory in 
men and women. We found that larger increases and moderate decreases in 
post-encoding music-induced emotional arousal from baseline resulted in gist 
versus detail trade-offs in memory, with improved general memory but impaired 
detailed memory, while moderate increases in arousal from baseline corresponded 
to improved detailed memory, but impaired general memory. Importantly, relative 
to controls, music-induced emotional arousal demonstrated unique impacts on 
detailed memory that are crucial in supporting episodic memory. These findings 
suggest that music intervention does not uniformly impact memory and has 
important implications in developing personalized music-related interventions 
for those with memory and mood impairments.

Copyright © 2025 Clark and Leal.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0158-25.2025
PMCID: PMC12311753
PMID: 40550693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


95. Neurodegener Dis. 2025 Jun 23:1-9. doi: 10.1159/000547072. Online ahead of 
print.

Sclerostin: A Potential Link between Osteoporosis and Alzheimer's Disease.

Guo Z(1), Xu Q(1), Zhang K(2), Ma Y(2), Sheng S(2), Jing D(3), Sun X(2), Kan 
C(2), Yu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical 
University, Weifang, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Clinical Research Center, 
Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical 
University, Weifang, China.

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are age-related disorders 
with shared risk factors such as aging, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. 
Sclerostin, a glycoprotein secreted by osteocytes, inhibits Wnt/β-catenin 
signaling, leading to suppressed bone formation and increased resorption in 
osteoporosis. Recent findings reveal sclerostin is also expressed in the brain, 
where it may disrupt synaptic function and contribute to AD progression. 
Romosozumab, an anti-sclerostin monoclonal antibody approved for osteoporosis, 
is being explored for potential use in AD, though its ability to cross the 
blood-brain barrier remains a challenge.
SUMMARY: This review highlights the emerging connection between osteoporosis and 
AD, focusing on sclerostin as a shared molecular mediator. Understanding this 
link may open new avenues for dual-purpose therapies targeting sclerostin, with 
the potential to benefit both bone and brain health. Further studies are needed 
to clarify the causal mechanisms and therapeutic implications.
KEY MESSAGES: This review highlights sclerostin as a key molecular link between 
osteoporosis and AD, supporting the emerging concept of a bone-brain axis. 
Anti-sclerostin therapies like romosozumab may offer benefits beyond bone 
health, with potential in neurodegenerative disease treatment. Sclerostin may 
drive AD pathology by disrupting Wnt/β-catenin signaling and promoting β-amyloid 
and tau abnormalities.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000547072
PMID: 40550222


96. J Vis Exp. 2025 Jun 6;(220). doi: 10.3791/67919.

Assessing Social Dominance in Mouse Models Using the Tube Test.

Fox SN(1), Kashyap SN(1), Murchison CF(2), Arrant AE(3), Roberson ED(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental 
Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham.
(2)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental 
Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham; 
Department of Biostatistics, Ryals School of Public Health, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham.
(3)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental 
Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham; 
andrewarrant@uabmc.edu.
(4)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental 
Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham; 
eroberson@uabmc.edu.

Social dominance is altered in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases 
and serves as a useful outcome measure in preclinical studies of these 
disorders. The tube test is a simple behavioral assay for evaluating social 
dominance that does not require expensive equipment. In this test, two mice 
enter opposite ends of a clear plastic tube, and after meeting in the middle, 
one (the less dominant) must back out. The tube test can be used for both male 
and female mice and includes several adaptable parameters to suit the 
investigator's needs. Mice may be tested against multiple unique opponents to 
provide an index of social dominance. Social dominance in the tube test remains 
stable over repeated testing and correlates with performance in other social 
assays. Additionally, the test can be conducted between cage mates to assess 
within-cage social dominance hierarchies. The tube test is particularly useful 
in preclinical therapeutic studies, as it enables longitudinal testing before 
and after experimental interventions. Therefore, it serves as a convenient 
outcome measure for mechanistic studies and preclinical therapeutic screening.

DOI: 10.3791/67919
PMID: 40549721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. JAMA Neurol. 2025 Jun 23;82(8):808-16. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.0182.
Online  ahead of print.

APOE ε4 and Risk of Intracranial Hemorrhage in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation 
Taking Apixaban.

Clocchiatti-Tuozzo S(1)(2)(3), Rivier CA(1)(2), Renedo D(4), Huo S(1)(2), de 
Havenon A(1)(2), Hawkes MA(5), Gilmore E(1), Schwamm LH(1), Sheth KN(1)(2), Gill 
TM(3), Falcone GJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(2)Yale Center for Brain and Mind Health, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(5)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

IMPORTANCE: The APOE ε4 variant is causally linked to cerebral amyloid 
angiopathy and is a risk factor for intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) among 
warfarin-treated patients with atrial fibrillation. Nevertheless, its impact on 
those treated with apixaban remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that APOE ε4 allele carriership is associated 
with an increased risk of ICH in patients with atrial fibrillation taking 
apixaban.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study involved data from the All 
of Us Research Program, a longitudinal, population-based study in the United 
States. Inclusion criteria were age older than 50 years, history of atrial 
fibrillation, and anticoagulation with apixaban. Participants with a history of 
ischemic stroke or ICH were excluded. Up to 3 years of follow-up data were 
available. Data were collected from 2017 to 2022 and analyzed from November 2023 
to December 2024.
EXPOSURE: APOE ε2, ε3, and ε4 were ascertained using variants rs429358 and 
rs7412. APOE ε4 was modeled dichotomously (noncarriers [no alleles] vs carriers 
[1 or 2 alleles]).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Incident ICH, including any new intraparenchymal, 
subdural, or subarachnoid hemorrhage after initiation of apixaban therapy.
RESULTS: Of 413 477 All of Us participants, 2038 were eligible. Their mean (SD) 
age was 71 (9) years; 918 (45%) were female, 1120 (55%) were male, and 1710 
(83%) had European ancestry. Among these participants, 483 (23.7%) were carriers 
of at least 1 APOE ε4 allele. After a median follow-up of 2.9 years, 26 
participants sustained an ICH (cumulative incidence, 1.5%; 95% CI, 1.0%-2.2%), 
of whom 12 (cumulative incidence, 3.1%; 95% CI, 1.7%-5.3%) were carriers and 14 
(cumulative incidence, 1%; 95% CI, 0.6%-1.7%) were noncarriers (P = .007). 
Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models confirmed this association: 
compared with noncarriership, APOE ε4 carriership was associated with a 3-fold 
increase in the risk of ICH (hazard ratio, 3.07; 95% CI, 1.42-6.65). APOE 
information improved the discrimination of risk prediction scores (C statistic 
of 0.74 and 0.68 for models with and without APOE, respectively; P = .03).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Further research is needed to evaluate whether 
cerebral amyloid angiopathy mediates the observed association and whether APOE 
e4 information improves clinical decision-making about anticoagulation therapy 
in patients with atrial fibrillation. The latter is important now that APOE 
information is used in clinical settings to guide antiamyloid treatment for 
Alzheimer disease and has been returned to millions of persons by 
direct-to-consumer genotyping companies.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.0182
PMCID: PMC12186128
PMID: 40549373

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Rivier is 
supported by the American Academy of Neurology (AAN)/American Heart Association 
(AHA) Ralph L. Sacco Scholars Fellowship (24RSSPOST1328228). Dr Huo reported 
grants from the German Research Foundation (514143076) during the conduct of the 
study. Dr de Havenon reported grants from the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) and AAN and personal fees from Novo Nordisk outside the submitted work. Dr 
Schwamm reported consultant fees from Medtronic and being a national 
co–principal investigator in the Stroke AF trial outside the submitted work. Dr 
Sheth reported grants from the NIH, AHA, Hyperfine, and Genentech and advisory 
board, consulting, and/or data and safety monitoring board fees from Bexorg, 
BrainQ, Astrocyte, and Sense outside the submitted work. Dr Falcone is supported 
by the AHA (817874, 24GWTGSIC1341098, 23BFHSCP1178409) and the NIH (P30AG021342, 
U01NS106513, RF1NS139183). No other disclosures were reported.


98. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jul;33(7):3805-3822. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01805-y.  Epub 2025 Jun 23.

Repurposing Saroglitazar for neurodegenerative disorders: insight into molecular 
signalling pathways and neuroprotective modulations.

Kushawaha SK(1), Kumar H(2), Chauhan C(2), Chaudhary S(2), Ashawat MS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, District Kangra, 
Kathog, Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India. shiv.kushawaha@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, District Kangra, 
Kathog, Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, District Kangra, 
Kathog, Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India.

Drug repurposing has emerged as a cost-efficient strategy for neurodegenerative 
disorders (NDDs), leveraging existing preclinical, safety, and tolerability data 
to identify therapeutic candidates. NDDs, including epilepsy, Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and traumatic brain injury (TBI), are 
characterized by neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and neuronal degeneration, 
with key signaling pathways such as HMGB1, TRPA1, NF-κB, MAPK, and 
PI3K/Akt-GSK3β playing pivotal roles in their pathogenesis. Given the 
established link between type 2 diabetes mellitus and neurodegeneration, 
Saroglitazar, a dual PPAR-α/γ agonist, holds promise in modulating insulin 
signaling, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and key pathways, including 
HMGB1, TRPA1, NF-κB, MAPK, and PI3K/Akt-GSK3β. This is the first comprehensive 
review to examine the effects of Saroglitazar in modulating multiple pathways 
associated with NDDs, thereby addressing existing gaps in the literature. The 
review explores the mechanistic interplay among these pathways and emphasizes 
the potential of Saroglitazar as a neuroprotective agent, highlighting the need 
for further studies to validate its clinical efficacy and disease-modifying 
capabilities in NDDs. All supporting data were obtained from peer-reviewed 
literature accessed via PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01805-y
PMID: 40549317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interest. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Clinical trial number: Not applicable.


99. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2025 Jun 23;82(1):248. doi: 10.1007/s00018-025-05787-6.

APOE4 triggers dysregulated synaptic vesicle release by disrupting SNARE complex 
assembly.

Chen F(#)(1)(2)(3), Chen Y(#)(1), Feng S(#)(1), Chen H(1), Deng L(3), Ma F(1), 
Ke Q(1), Liang Q(1), Chen J(3), Peng X(1), Lu J(1), Liu Y(1), Xie Y(1), Cao 
H(4), Sun Y(5), Wu W(6), Cui L(7)(8), Wang Y(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Age-Related Cardiac and Cerebral Diseases, 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524000, China.
(2)The Marine Biomedical Research Institute of Guangdong, School of Ocean and 
Tropical Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524023, China.
(3)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong 
Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524000, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Biopharmaceutics, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang, 110035, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(6)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Age-Related Cardiac and Cerebral Diseases, 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524000, China. 
wenxianwu@sdu.edu.cn.
(7)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Age-Related Cardiac and Cerebral Diseases, 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524000, China. 
cuilili@gdmu.edu.cn.
(8)The Marine Biomedical Research Institute of Guangdong, School of Ocean and 
Tropical Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524023, China. 
cuilili@gdmu.edu.cn.
(9)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Age-Related Cardiac and Cerebral Diseases, 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524000, China. 
jwangyan@gdmu.edu.cn.
(10)The Marine Biomedical Research Institute of Guangdong, School of Ocean and 
Tropical Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524023, China. 
jwangyan@gdmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The ε4 allele of the Apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene is an important genetic risk 
factor for several neurodegenerative diseases, while the common pathogenic 
mechanism is still unclear. Impaired synaptic transmission is one of the common 
pathogenic features of neurodegenerative diseases. By using proteomics analysis, 
co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and bimolecular fluorescence complementation 
(BiFC) assay, we demonstrated that APOE interacts with VAMP2, a core component 
of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor 
(SNARE) complex, in an APOE4 > APOE3 manner. Further in vitro and in vivo 
results suggest that APOE4 blocks SNARE complex assembly, which is likely driven 
by liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), negatively regulating synaptic vesicle 
release. Our study shows that APOE4 negatively regulates synaptic vesicle 
release by blocking the soluble SNARE complex assembly. Our data shed a light on 
how APOE polymorphism contributes to the risk for neurodegenerative diseases, 
and provides a theoretical basis for the future APOE targeted treatment of 
neurological diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-025-05787-6
PMCID: PMC12185852
PMID: 40549157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: All animal 
experimental procedures were approved by the Laboratory Animal Ethics Committee 
of Guangdong Medical University, and conducted in accordance with national 
standards. Consent for publication: All authors agree with the publication of 
this article. Conflict of interest: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests.


100. Nervenarzt. 2025 Jun 23. doi: 10.1007/s00115-025-01839-1. Online ahead of
print.

[Genetically informed treatment in psychiatry: new dynamics through APOE and 
antibody treatment of Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Müller DJ(1), Freitag CM(2), Heilbronner U(3), Nöthen MM(4), Perneczky 
R(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Rietschel M(10), Schulte EC(3)(11)(12), Deckert J(13)(14); 
Referat Genetische, molekulare und zelluläre Neurowissenschaften der DGPPN.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences, Whitby, Ontario, and 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, 250 College Street, M5T 1R8, 
Toronto, Ontario, Kanada. daniel.mueller@camh.ca.
(2)Universitätsklinikum Frankfurt, Klinik und Poliklinik für Kinder- und 
Jugendpsychiatrie, Psychosomatik und Psychotherapie, Goethe Universität, 
Frankfurt am Main, Deutschland.
(3)Institut für Psychiatrische Phänomik und Genomik (IPPG), LMU Klinikum, LMU 
München, München, Deutschland.
(4)Institut für Humangenetik, Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Bonn, Deutschland.
(5)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, LMU Klinikum, LMU 
München, München, Deutschland.
(6)Deutsches Zentrum für Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE), Standort 
München, München, Deutschland.
(7)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Deutschland.
(8)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, Großbritannien.
(9)Division of Neuroscience, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, Großbritannien.
(10)Abteilung Genetische Epidemiologie in der Psychiatrie, Zentralinstitut für 
Seelische Gesundheit, Medizinische Fakultät Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg, 
Mannheim, Deutschland.
(11)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie, Universitätsklinikum, Medizinische 
Fakultät, Universität Bonn, Bonn, Deutschland.
(12)Deutsches Zentrum für Psychische Gesundheit (DZPG), Standort München, 
München, Deutschland.
(13)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie, Psychosomatik und Psychotherapie, 
Zentrum für Psychische Gesundheit, Universitätsklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Deutschland.
(14)Institut für Klinische Epidemiologie und Biometrie, 
Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Würzburg, Deutschland.

The European Medicines Agency has recommended testing for the ApoE-genotype 
prior to treatment of Alzheimer's disease with Lecanemab. The drug approval is 
limited to patients who are not homozygous for the ApoE epsilon 4 allele. This 
is to reduce the risk of undesired adverse effects in the patients treated with 
Lecanemab. With this recommendation for the first time a psychiatric therapy 
will be genetically informed.

Publisher: Die europäische Arzneimittelagentur hat als Voraussetzung für eine 
Therapie mit Lecanemab zur Behandlung der Alzheimer-Krankeit eine Bestimmung des 
ApoE-Genotyps empfohlen. Die Zulassung ist auf Patienten beschränkt, die nicht 
homozygot für das ApoE epsilon 4-Allel sind. Dies soll das Risiko unerwünschter 
Wirkungen bei den mit Lecanemab behandelten Patienten reduzieren. Damit wird 
erstmals eine psychiatrische Therapie genetisch informiert sein.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-025-01839-1
PMID: 40548968

Conflict of interest statement: Einhaltung ethischer Richtlinien. 
Interessenkonflikt: M.M. Nöthen hat in den letzten 5 Jahren Vergütungen für 
Mitgliedschaften im Wissenschaftlichen Beirat der HMG Systems Engineering GmbH 
(Fürth, Deutschland) und des Medizinisch-Wissenschaftlichen Beirats des 
Deutschen Ärzteblatts, für die Arbeit als Consultant für EVERIS Belgique SPRL in 
einem Projekt der Europäischen Kommission (REFORM/SC2020/029) und für die 
Tätigkeit als Gutachter für das European Research Council (ERC) erhalten. 
M.M. Nöthen erhält Gehaltszahlungen durch die Life & Brain GmbH und ist 
Gesellschafter der Life & Brain GmbH. R. Perneczky gibt Honorare für Vorträge 
und Beratertätigkeiten von Roche, Biogen, Eisai, J&J, Astra Zeneca, Schwabe, 
Grifols, Tabuk, Eli Lilly, GE, Bayer, GSK und Bristol-Myers-Squibb an und ist 
Mitgründer der Medotrax GmbH und Vorstandsvorsitzender der International 
Registry for Alzheimer’s Disease and Other Dementias (InRAD) Stiftung. 
D.J. Müller, C.M. Freitag, U. Heilbronner, M. Rietschel, E.C. Schulte und 
J. Deckert geben an, dass kein Interessenkonflikt besteht. Für diesen Beitrag 
wurden von den Autor/-innen keine Studien an Menschen oder Tieren durchgeführt. 
Für die aufgeführten Studien gelten die jeweils dort angegebenen ethischen 
Richtlinien.